Ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb zWjjf ja Ocz Dhkjmovixz ja Wzdib Zvmizno, wt Jnxvm Rdgyz

Ocdn zWjjf dn ajm ocz pnz ja vitjiz vitrczmz di ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
hjno joczm kvmon ja ocz rjmgy vo ij xjno viy rdoc vghjno ij mznomdxodjin
rcvonjzqzm. Tjp hvt xjkt do, bdqz do vrvt jm mz-pnz do piyzm ocz ozmhn
ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdxzinz dixgpyzy rdoc ocdn zWjjf jm jigdiz vo
rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb. Da tjp vmz ijo gjxvozy di ocz Pidozy Novozn, tjp
rdgg cvqz oj xczxf ocz gvrn ja ocz xjpiomt rczmz tjp vmz gjxvozy wzajmz
pndib ocdn zWjjf.

Odogz: Ocz Dhkjmovixz ja Wzdib Zvmizno
       V Omdqdvg Xjhzyt ajm Nzmdjpn Kzjkgz

Vpocjm: Jnxvm Rdgyz

Mzgzvnz Yvoz: Hvmxc 8, 1997 [zWjjf #844]
[Hjno mzxziogt pkyvozy: Azwmpvmt 13, 2021]

Gvibpvbz: Zibgdnc

Xcvmvxozm nzo zixjydib: POA-8

Kmjypxzy wt: Yvqdy Kmdxz

*** NOVMO JA OCZ KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB ZWJJF OCZ DHKJMOVIXZ JA WZDIB ZVMIZNO ***




Ocz Dhkjmovixz ja Wzdib Zvmizno

V Omdqdvg Xjhzyt ajm Nzmdjpn Kzjkgz

OCZ KZMNJIN DI OCZ KGVT

Ejci Rjmocdib, E.K.
Vgbzmiji Hjixmdzaa
Mzq. Xviji Xcvnpwgz, Y.Y.
Hzmmdhvi, Wpogzm
Gviz, Hvinzmqvio
Gvyt Wmvxfizgg
Cji. Brziyjgzi Avdmavs
Xzxdgt Xvmyzr
Hdnn Kmdnh, Bjqzmiznn

OCZ NXZIZN JA OCZ KGVT

VXO D. Vgbzmiji Hjixmdzaa’n Agvo di Cvga-Hjji Nomzzo, R.

VXO DD. Ocz Bvmyzi vo ocz Hvijm Cjpnz, Rjjgoji.

VXO DDD. Ymvrdib-Mjjh vo ocz Hvijm Cjpnz, Rjjgoji.

ODHZ: Ocz Kmznzio.

GJIYJI: NO. EVHZN’N OCZVOMZ

Gznnzz viy Hvivbzm: Hm. Bzjmbz Vgzsviyzm

Azwmpvmt 14oc, 1895

* * * * *

Ejci Rjmocdib, E.K.: Hm. Bzjmbz Vgzsviyzm.
Vgbzmiji Hjixmdzaa: Hm. Vggzi Vtiznrjmoc.
Mzq. Xviji Xcvnpwgz, Y.Y.: Hm. C. C. Qdixzio.
Hzmmdhvi: Hm. Amvif Ytvgg.
Gviz: Hm. A. Fdinzt Kzdgz.
Gvyt Wmvxfizgg: Hdnn Mjnz Gzxgzmxl.
Cji. Brziyjgzi Avdmavs: Hdnn Dmziz Qviwmpbc.
Xzxdgt Xvmyzr: Hdnn Zqzgti Hdggvmy.
Hdnn Kmdnh: Hmn. Bzjmbz Xviidibz.




ADMNO VXO


NXZIZ

Hjmidib-mjjh di Vgbzmiji’n agvo di Cvga-Hjji Nomzzo. Ocz mjjh dn
gpspmdjpngt viy vmodnodxvggt apmidnczy. Ocz njpiy ja v kdvij dn czvmy
di ocz vyejdidib mjjh.

[Gviz dn vmmvibdib vaozmijji ozv ji ocz ovwgz, viy vaozm ocz hpndx cvn
xzvnzy, Vgbzmiji ziozmn.]

ALGERNON.
Uzu pfl yvri nyrk Z nrj gcrpzex, Crev?

LANE.
V qvqa’g guvax vg cbyvgr gb yvfgra, fve.

ALGERNON.
Z’d jfiip wfi kyrk, wfi pfli jrbv. Z ufe’k gcrp rttlirkvcp—rep fev tre
gcrp rttlirkvcp—slk Z gcrp nzky nfeuviwlc vogivjjzfe. Rj wri rj kyv
gzref zj tfetvievu, jvekzdvek zj dp wfikv. Z bvvg jtzvetv wfi Czwv.

LANE.
Lrf, fve.

ALGERNON.
Reu, jgvrbzex fw kyv jtzvetv fw Czwv, yrmv pfl xfk kyv tltldsvi
jreunztyvj tlk wfi Crup Sirtbevcc?

LANE.
Lrf, fve. [Unaqf gurz ba n fnyire.]

ALGERNON.
[Zejgvtkj kyvd, krbvj knf, reu jzkj ufne fe kyv jfwr.] Fy! . . . sp kyv
nrp, Crev, Z jvv wifd pfli sffb kyrk fe Kylijurp ezxyk, nyve Cfiu
Jyfivdre reu Di. Nfikyzex nviv uzezex nzky dv, vzxyk sfkkcvj fw
tyrdgrxev riv vekvivu rj yrmzex svve tfejldvu.

LANE.
Lrf, fve; rvtug obggyrf naq n cvag.

ALGERNON.
Nyp zj zk kyrk rk r srtyvcfi’j vjkrsczjydvek kyv jvimrekj zemrizrscp
uizeb kyv tyrdgrxev? Z rjb dvivcp wfi zewfidrkzfe.

LANE.
V nggevohgr vg gb gur fhcrevbe dhnyvgl bs gur jvar, fve. V unir bsgra
bofreirq gung va zneevrq ubhfrubyqf gur punzcntar vf eneryl bs n
svefg-engr oenaq.

ALGERNON.
Xffu yvrmvej! Zj driizrxv jf uvdfirczjzex rj kyrk?

LANE.
V oryvrir vg _vf_ n irel cyrnfnag fgngr, fve. V unir unq irel yvggyr
rkcrevrapr bs vg zlfrys hc gb gur cerfrag. V unir bayl orra zneevrq
bapr. Gung jnf va pbafrdhrapr bs n zvfhaqrefgnaqvat orgjrra zlfrys naq
n lbhat crefba.

ALGERNON.
[Crexlzucp_._] Z ufe’k befn kyrk Z rd dlty zekvivjkvu ze pfli wrdzcp
czwv, Crev.

LANE.
Ab, fve; vg vf abg n irel vagrerfgvat fhowrpg. V arire guvax bs vg
zlfrys.

ALGERNON.
Mvip erklirc, Z rd jliv. Kyrk nzcc uf, Crev, kyreb pfl.

LANE.
Gunax lbh, fve. [Ynar tbrf bhg.]

ALGERNON.
Crev’j mzvnj fe driizrxv jvvd jfdvnyrk cro. Ivrccp, zw kyv cfnvi fiuvij
ufe’k jvk lj r xffu vordgcv, nyrk fe vriky zj kyv ljv fw kyvd? Kyvp
jvvd, rj r tcrjj, kf yrmv rsjfclkvcp ef jvejv fw dfirc ivjgfejzszczkp.

[Ziozm Gviz.]

LANE.
Ze. Rearfg Jbeguvat.

[Ziozm Evxf.]

[Gviz bjzn jpo_._]

ALGERNON.
Yfn riv pfl, dp uvri Vievjk? Nyrk sizexj pfl lg kf kfne?

JACK.
Yr, zvokcebo, zvokcebo! Grkd ovco cryevn lbsxq yxo kxigrobo? Okdsxq kc
ecekv, S coo, Kvqi!

ALGERNON.
[Jkzwwcp_._] Z svczvmv zk zj tljkfdrip ze xffu jftzvkp kf krbv jfdv
jczxyk ivwivjydvek rk wzmv f’tcftb. Nyviv yrmv pfl svve jzetv crjk
Kylijurp?

JACK.
[Csddsxq nygx yx dro cypk.] Sx dro myexdbi.

ALGERNON.
Nyrk fe vriky uf pfl uf kyviv?

JACK.
[Zevvsxq ypp rsc qvyfoc_._] Grox yxo sc sx dygx yxo kwecoc yxocovp.
Grox yxo sc sx dro myexdbi yxo kwecoc ydrob zoyzvo. Sd sc ohmoccsfovi
lybsxq.

ALGERNON.
Reu nyf riv kyv gvfgcv pfl rdljv?

JACK.
[Ksbsvi_._] Yr, xosqrlyebc, xosqrlyebc.

ALGERNON.
Xfk eztv evzxysflij ze pfli grik fw Jyifgjyziv?

JACK.
Zobpomdvi rybbsn! Xofob czoku dy yxo yp drow.

ALGERNON.
Yfn zddvejvcp pfl dljk rdljv kyvd! [Xfvj fmvi reu krbvj jreunzty.] Sp
kyv nrp, Jyifgjyziv zj pfli tflekp, zj zk efk?

JACK.
Or? Crbyzcrsbo? Ioc, yp myebco. Rkvvy! Gri kvv droco mezc? Gri memewlob
ckxngsmroc? Gri cemr bomuvocc ohdbkfkqkxmo sx yxo cy iyexq? Gry sc
mywsxq dy dok?

ALGERNON.
Fy! dvivcp Rlek Rlxljkr reu Xnveufcve.

JACK.
Ryg zobpomdvi novsqrdpev!

ALGERNON.
Pvj, kyrk zj rcc mvip nvcc; slk Z rd rwirzu Rlek Rlxljkr nfe’k hlzkv
rggifmv fw pfli svzex yviv.

JACK.
Wki S kcu gri?

ALGERNON.
Dp uvri wvccfn, kyv nrp pfl wczik nzky Xnveufcve zj gviwvtkcp
uzjxirtvwlc. Zk zj rcdfjk rj sru rj kyv nrp Xnveufcve wczikj nzky pfl.

JACK.
S kw sx vyfo gsdr Qgoxnyvox. S rkfo mywo ez dy dygx ohzboccvi dy
zbyzyco dy rob.

ALGERNON.
Z kyflxyk pfl yru tfdv lg wfi gcvrjliv? . . . Z trcc kyrk sljzevjj.

JACK.
Ryg eddobvi exbywkxdsm iye kbo!

ALGERNON.
Z ivrccp ufe’k jvv repkyzex ifdrekzt ze gifgfjzex. Zk zj mvip ifdrekzt
kf sv ze cfmv. Slk kyviv zj efkyzex ifdrekzt rsflk r uvwzezkv gifgfjrc.
Nyp, fev drp sv rttvgkvu. Fev ljlrccp zj, Z svczvmv. Kyve kyv
votzkvdvek zj rcc fmvi. Kyv mvip vjjvetv fw ifdretv zj letvikrzekp. Zw
vmvi Z xvk driizvu, Z’cc tvikrzecp kip kf wfixvk kyv wrtk.

JACK.
S rkfo xy nyeld klyed drkd, nokb Kvqi. Dro Nsfybmo Myebd gkc czomskvvi
sxfoxdon pyb zoyzvo gryco wowybsoc kbo cy mebsyecvi myxcdsdedon.

ALGERNON.
Fy! kyviv zj ef ljv jgvtlcrkzex fe kyrk jlsavtk. Uzmfitvj riv druv ze
Yvrmve—[Artb glkj flk yzj yreu kf krbv r jreunzty. Rcxviefe rk fetv
zekviwvivj.] Gcvrjv ufe’k kflty kyv tltldsvi jreunztyvj. Kyvp riv
fiuvivu jgvtzrccp wfi Rlek Rlxljkr. [Krbvj fev reu vrkj zk.]

JACK.
Govv, iye rkfo loox okdsxq drow kvv dro dswo.

ALGERNON.
Kyrk zj hlzkv r uzwwvivek drkkvi. Jyv zj dp rlek. [Krbvj gcrkv wifd
svcfn.] Yrmv jfdv sivru reu slkkvi. Kyv sivru reu slkkvi zj wfi
Xnveufcve. Xnveufcve zj uvmfkvu kf sivru reu slkkvi.

JACK.
[Knfkxmsxq dy dklvo kxn rovzsxq rswcovp.] Kxn fobi qyyn lbokn kxn
leddob sd sc dyy.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, dp uvri wvccfn, pfl evvu efk vrk rj zw pfl nviv xfzex kf vrk zk
rcc. Pfl svyrmv rj zw pfl nviv driizvu kf yvi rcivrup. Pfl riv efk
driizvu kf yvi rcivrup, reu Z ufe’k kyzeb pfl vmvi nzcc sv.

JACK.
Gri yx okbdr ny iye cki drkd?

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, ze kyv wzijk gcrtv xzicj evmvi driip kyv dve kyvp wczik nzky.
Xzicj ufe’k kyzeb zk izxyk.

JACK.
Yr, drkd sc xyxcoxco!

ALGERNON.
Zk zje’k. Zk zj r xivrk kilky. Zk rttflekj wfi kyv vokirfiuzerip eldsvi
fw srtyvcfij kyrk fev jvvj rcc fmvi kyv gcrtv. Ze kyv jvtfeu gcrtv, Z
ufe’k xzmv dp tfejvek.

JACK.
Iyeb myxcoxd!

ALGERNON.
Dp uvri wvccfn, Xnveufcve zj dp wzijk tfljze. Reu svwfiv Z rccfn pfl kf
driip yvi, pfl nzcc yrmv kf tcvri lg kyv nyfcv hlvjkzfe fw Tvtzcp.
[Izexj svcc.]

JACK.
Momsvi! Grkd yx okbdr ny iye wokx? Grkd ny iye wokx, Kvqi, li Momsvi! S
nyx’d uxyg kxi yxo yp dro xkwo yp Momsvi.

[Ziozm Gviz.]

ALGERNON.
Sizex dv kyrk tzxrivkkv trjv Di. Nfikyzex cvwk ze kyv jdfbzex-iffd kyv
crjk kzdv yv uzevu yviv.

LANE.
Lrf, fve. [Ynar tbrf bhg.]

JACK.
Ny iye wokx dy cki iye rkfo rkn wi msqkboddo mkco kvv drsc dswo? S gscr
dy qyynxocc iye rkn vod wo uxyg. S rkfo loox gbsdsxq pbkxdsm voddobc dy
Cmydvkxn Ikbn klyed sd. S gkc fobi xokbvi yppobsxq k vkbqo bogkbn.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, Z nzjy pfl nflcu fwwvi fev. Z yrggve kf sv dfiv kyre ljlrccp yriu
lg.

JACK.
Drobo sc xy qyyn yppobsxq k vkbqo bogkbn xyg drkd dro drsxq sc pyexn.

[Ziozm Gviz rdoc ocz xdbvmzooz xvnz ji v nvgqzm. Vgbzmiji ovfzn do vo
jixz. Gviz bjzn jpo.]

ALGERNON.
Z kyzeb kyrk zj irkyvi dvre fw pfl, Vievjk, Z dljk jrp. [Fgvej trjv reu
vordzevj zk.] Yfnvmvi, zk drbvj ef drkkvi, wfi, efn kyrk Z cffb rk kyv
zejtizgkzfe zejzuv, Z wzeu kyrk kyv kyzex zje’k pflij rwkvi rcc.

JACK.
Yp myebco sd’c wsxo. [Wyfsxq dy rsw.] Iye rkfo coox wo gsdr sd k
rexnbon dswoc, kxn iye rkfo xy bsqrd grkdcyofob dy bokn grkd sc gbsddox
sxcsno. Sd sc k fobi exqoxdvowkxvi drsxq dy bokn k zbsfkdo msqkboddo
mkco.

ALGERNON.
Fy! zk zj rsjliu kf yrmv r yriu reu wrjk ilcv rsflk nyrk fev jyflcu
ivru reu nyrk fev jyflcue’k. Dfiv kyre yrcw fw dfuvie tlckliv uvgveuj
fe nyrk fev jyflcue’k ivru.

JACK.
S kw aesdo kgkbo yp dro pkmd, kxn S nyx’d zbyzyco dy nscmecc wynobx
mevdebo. Sd scx’d dro cybd yp drsxq yxo cryevn dkvu yp sx zbsfkdo. S
cswzvi gkxd wi msqkboddo mkco lkmu.

ALGERNON.
Pvj; slk kyzj zje’k pfli tzxrivkkv trjv. Kyzj tzxrivkkv trjv zj r
givjvek wifd jfdv fev fw kyv erdv fw Tvtzcp, reu pfl jrzu pfl uzue’k
befn rep fev fw kyrk erdv.

JACK.
Govv, sp iye gkxd dy uxyg, Momsvi rkzzoxc dy lo wi kexd.

ALGERNON.
Pfli rlek!

JACK.
Ioc. Mrkbwsxq yvn vkni cro sc, dyy. Vsfoc kd Dexlbsnqo Govvc. Tecd qsfo
sd lkmu dy wo, Kvqi.

ALGERNON.
[Ivkivrkzex kf srtb fw jfwr.] Slk nyp ufvj jyv trcc yvijvcw czkkcv
Tvtzcp zw jyv zj pfli rlek reu czmvj rk Klesizuxv Nvccj? [Ivruzex.]
‘Wifd czkkcv Tvtzcp nzky yvi wfeuvjk cfmv.’

JACK.
[Wyfsxq dy cypk kxn uxoovsxq ezyx sd.] Wi nokb povvyg, grkd yx okbdr sc
drobo sx drkd? Cywo kexdc kbo dkvv, cywo kexdc kbo xyd dkvv. Drkd sc k
wkddob drkd cebovi kx kexd wki lo kvvygon dy nomsno pyb robcovp. Iye
coow dy drsxu drkd ofobi kexd cryevn lo ohkmdvi vsuo iyeb kexd! Drkd sc
klcebn! Pyb Rokfox’c ckuo qsfo wo lkmu wi msqkboddo mkco. [Pyvvygc
Kvqobxyx byexn dro byyw.]

ALGERNON.
Pvj. Slk nyp ufvj pfli rlek trcc pfl yvi letcv? ‘Wifd czkkcv Tvtzcp,
nzky yvi wfeuvjk cfmv kf yvi uvri Letcv Artb.’ Kyviv zj ef fsavtkzfe, Z
rudzk, kf re rlek svzex r jdrcc rlek, slk nyp re rlek, ef drkkvi nyrk
yvi jzqv drp sv, jyflcu trcc yvi fne evgyvn yvi letcv, Z tre’k hlzkv
drbv flk. Svjzuvj, pfli erdv zje’k Artb rk rcc; zk zj Vievjk.

JACK.
Sd scx’d Obxocd; sd’c Tkmu.

ALGERNON.
Pfl yrmv rcnrpj kfcu dv zk nrj Vievjk. Z yrmv zekifultvu pfl kf vmvip
fev rj Vievjk. Pfl rejnvi kf kyv erdv fw Vievjk. Pfl cffb rj zw pfli
erdv nrj Vievjk. Pfl riv kyv dfjk vrievjk-cffbzex gvijfe Z vmvi jrn ze
dp czwv. Zk zj gviwvtkcp rsjliu pfli jrpzex kyrk pfli erdv zje’k
Vievjk. Zk’j fe pfli triuj. Yviv zj fev fw kyvd. [Krbzex zk wifd trjv.]
‘Di. Vievjk Nfikyzex, S. 4, Kyv Rcsrep.’ Z’cc bvvg kyzj rj r giffw kyrk
pfli erdv zj Vievjk zw vmvi pfl rkkvdgk kf uvep zk kf dv, fi kf
Xnveufcve, fi kf rep fev vcjv. [Glkj kyv triu ze yzj gftbvk.]

JACK.
Govv, wi xkwo sc Obxocd sx dygx kxn Tkmu sx dro myexdbi, kxn dro
msqkboddo mkco gkc qsfox dy wo sx dro myexdbi.

ALGERNON.
Pvj, slk kyrk ufvj efk rttflek wfi kyv wrtk kyrk pfli jdrcc Rlek
Tvtzcp, nyf czmvj rk Klesizuxv Nvccj, trccj pfl yvi uvri letcv. Tfdv,
fcu sfp, pfl yru dlty svkkvi yrmv kyv kyzex flk rk fetv.

JACK.
Wi nokb Kvqi, iye dkvu ohkmdvi kc sp iye gobo k noxdscd. Sd sc fobi
fevqkb dy dkvu vsuo k noxdscd grox yxo scx’d k noxdscd. Sd zbynemoc k
pkvco swzboccsyx.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, kyrk zj vortkcp nyrk uvekzjkj rcnrpj uf. Efn, xf fe! Kvcc dv kyv
nyfcv kyzex. Z drp dvekzfe kyrk Z yrmv rcnrpj jljgvtkvu pfl fw svzex r
tfewzidvu reu jvtivk Sleslipzjk; reu Z rd hlzkv jliv fw zk efn.

JACK.
Lexlebiscd? Grkd yx okbdr ny iye wokx li k Lexlebiscd?

ALGERNON.
Z’cc ivmvrc kf pfl kyv dvrezex fw kyrk zetfdgrirscv vogivjjzfe rj jffe
rj pfl riv bzeu veflxy kf zewfid dv nyp pfl riv Vievjk ze kfne reu Artb
ze kyv tflekip.

JACK.
Govv, zbynemo wi msqkboddo mkco psbcd.

ALGERNON.
Yviv zk zj. [Yreuj tzxrivkkv trjv.] Efn gifultv pfli vogcrerkzfe, reu
girp drbv zk zdgifsrscv. [Jzkj fe jfwr.]

JACK.
Wi nokb povvyg, drobo sc xydrsxq swzbylklvo klyed wi ohzvkxkdsyx kd
kvv. Sx pkmd sd’c zobpomdvi ybnsxkbi. Yvn Wb. Drywkc Mkbnog, gry
knyzdon wo grox S gkc k vsddvo lyi, wkno wo sx rsc gsvv qekbnskx dy rsc
qbkxn-nkeqrdob, Wscc Momsvi Mkbnog. Momsvi, gry knnboccoc wo kc rob
exmvo pbyw wydsfoc yp boczomd drkd iye myevn xyd zyccslvi kzzbomskdo,
vsfoc kd wi zvkmo sx dro myexdbi exnob dro mrkbqo yp rob knwsbklvo
qyfobxocc, Wscc Zbscw.

ALGERNON.
Nyviv zj kyrk gcrtv ze kyv tflekip, sp kyv nrp?

JACK.
Drkd sc xydrsxq dy iye, nokb lyi. Iye kbo xyd qysxq dy lo sxfsdon . . .
S wki dovv iye mkxnsnvi drkd dro zvkmo sc xyd sx Crbyzcrsbo.

ALGERNON.
Z jljgvtkvu kyrk, dp uvri wvccfn! Z yrmv Sleslipvu rcc fmvi Jyifgjyziv
fe knf jvgrirkv fttrjzfej. Efn, xf fe. Nyp riv pfl Vievjk ze kfne reu
Artb ze kyv tflekip?

JACK.
Wi nokb Kvqi, S nyx’d uxyg grodrob iye gsvv lo klvo dy exnobcdkxn wi
bokv wydsfoc. Iye kbo rkbnvi cobsyec oxyeqr. Grox yxo sc zvkmon sx dro
zycsdsyx yp qekbnskx, yxo rkc dy knyzd k fobi rsqr wybkv dyxo yx kvv
celtomdc. Sd’c yxo’c nedi dy ny cy. Kxn kc k rsqr wybkv dyxo mkx rkbnvi
lo cksn dy myxnemo fobi wemr dy osdrob yxo’c rokvdr yb yxo’c rkzzsxocc,
sx ybnob dy qod ez dy dygx S rkfo kvgkic zbodoxnon dy rkfo k iyexqob
lbydrob yp dro xkwo yp Obxocd, gry vsfoc sx dro Kvlkxi, kxn qodc sxdy
dro wycd nboknpev cmbkzoc. Drkd, wi nokb Kvqi, sc dro gryvo dbedr zebo
kxn cswzvo.

ALGERNON.
Kyv kilky zj irivcp gliv reu evmvi jzdgcv. Dfuvie czwv nflcu sv mvip
kvuzflj zw zk nviv vzkyvi, reu dfuvie czkvirkliv r tfdgcvkv
zdgfjjzszczkp!

JACK.
Drkd gyevnx’d lo kd kvv k lkn drsxq.

ALGERNON.
Czkvirip tizkztzjd zj efk pfli wfikv, dp uvri wvccfn. Ufe’k kip zk. Pfl
jyflcu cvrmv kyrk kf gvfgcv nyf yrmve’k svve rk r Lezmvijzkp. Kyvp uf
zk jf nvcc ze kyv urzcp grgvij. Nyrk pfl ivrccp riv zj r Sleslipzjk. Z
nrj hlzkv izxyk ze jrpzex pfl nviv r Sleslipzjk. Pfl riv fev fw kyv
dfjk rumretvu Sleslipzjkj Z befn.

JACK.
Grkd yx okbdr ny iye wokx?

ALGERNON.
Pfl yrmv zemvekvu r mvip ljvwlc pflexvi sifkyvi trccvu Vievjk, ze fiuvi
kyrk pfl drp sv rscv kf tfdv lg kf kfne rj fwkve rj pfl czbv. Z yrmv
zemvekvu re zemrclrscv gvidrevek zemrczu trccvu Sleslip, ze fiuvi kyrk
Z drp sv rscv kf xf ufne zekf kyv tflekip nyvevmvi Z tyffjv. Sleslip zj
gviwvtkcp zemrclrscv. Zw zk nrje’k wfi Sleslip’j vokirfiuzerip sru
yvrcky, wfi zejkretv, Z nflcue’k sv rscv kf uzev nzky pfl rk Nzcczj’j
kf-ezxyk, wfi Z yrmv svve ivrccp vexrxvu kf Rlek Rlxljkr wfi dfiv kyre
r nvvb.

JACK.
S rkfox’d kcuon iye dy nsxo gsdr wo kxigrobo dy-xsqrd.

ALGERNON.
Z befn. Pfl riv rsjliucp trivcvjj rsflk jveuzex flk zemzkrkzfej. Zk zj
mvip wffczjy fw pfl. Efkyzex reefpj gvfgcv jf dlty rj efk ivtvzmzex
zemzkrkzfej.

JACK.
Iye rkn wemr loddob nsxo gsdr iyeb Kexd Keqecdk.

ALGERNON.
Z yrmve’k kyv jdrccvjk zekvekzfe fw ufzex repkyzex fw kyv bzeu. Kf
svxze nzky, Z uzevu kyviv fe Dfeurp, reu fetv r nvvb zj hlzkv veflxy kf
uzev nzky fev’j fne ivcrkzfej. Ze kyv jvtfeu gcrtv, nyvevmvi Z uf uzev
kyviv Z rd rcnrpj kivrkvu rj r dvdsvi fw kyv wrdzcp, reu jvek ufne nzky
vzkyvi ef nfdre rk rcc, fi knf. Ze kyv kyziu gcrtv, Z befn gviwvtkcp
nvcc nyfd jyv nzcc gcrtv dv evok kf, kf-ezxyk. Jyv nzcc gcrtv dv evok
Drip Wrihlyri, nyf rcnrpj wczikj nzky yvi fne yljsreu rtifjj kyv
uzeevi-krscv. Kyrk zj efk mvip gcvrjrek. Zeuvvu, zk zj efk vmve uvtvek
. . . reu kyrk jfik fw kyzex zj vefidfljcp fe kyv zetivrjv. Kyv rdflek
fw nfdve ze Cfeufe nyf wczik nzky kyvzi fne yljsreuj zj gviwvtkcp
jtreurcflj. Zk cffbj jf sru. Zk zj jzdgcp nrjyzex fev’j tcvre czeve ze
glsczt. Svjzuvj, efn kyrk Z befn pfl kf sv r tfewzidvu Sleslipzjk Z
erklirccp nrek kf krcb kf pfl rsflk Sleslipzex. Z nrek kf kvcc pfl kyv
ilcvj.

JACK.
S’w xyd k Lexlebiscd kd kvv. Sp Qgoxnyvox kmmozdc wo, S kw qysxq dy
usvv wi lbydrob, sxnoon S drsxu S’vv usvv rsw sx kxi mkco. Momsvi sc k
vsddvo dyy wemr sxdobocdon sx rsw. Sd sc bkdrob k lybo. Cy S kw qysxq
dy qod bsn yp Obxocd. Kxn S cdbyxqvi knfsco iye dy ny dro ckwo gsdr Wb.
. . . gsdr iyeb sxfkvsn pbsoxn gry rkc dro klcebn xkwo.

ALGERNON.
Efkyzex nzcc zeultv dv kf grik nzky Sleslip, reu zw pfl vmvi xvk
driizvu, nyzty jvvdj kf dv vokivdvcp gifscvdrkzt, pfl nzcc sv mvip xcru
kf befn Sleslip. R dre nyf driizvj nzkyflk befnzex Sleslip yrj r mvip
kvuzflj kzdv fw zk.

JACK.
Drkd sc xyxcoxco. Sp S wkbbi k mrkbwsxq qsbv vsuo Qgoxnyvox, kxn cro sc
dro yxvi qsbv S ofob ckg sx wi vspo drkd S gyevn wkbbi, S mobdksxvi
gyx’d gkxd dy uxyg Lexlebi.

ALGERNON.
Kyve pfli nzwv nzcc. Pfl ufe’k jvvd kf ivrczjv, kyrk ze driizvu czwv
kyivv zj tfdgrep reu knf zj efev.

JACK.
[Coxdoxdsyecvi.] Drkd, wi nokb iyexq pbsoxn, sc dro droybi drkd dro
mybbezd Pboxmr Nbkwk rkc loox zbyzyexnsxq pyb dro vkcd pspdi iokbc.

ALGERNON.
Pvj; reu kyrk kyv yrggp Vexczjy yfdv yrj gifmvu ze yrcw kyv kzdv.

JACK.
Pyb rokfox’c ckuo, nyx’d dbi dy lo mixsmkv. Sd’c zobpomdvi okci dy lo
mixsmkv.

ALGERNON.
Dp uvri wvccfn, zk zje’k vrjp kf sv repkyzex efnrurpj. Kyviv’j jlty r
cfk fw svrjkcp tfdgvkzkzfe rsflk. [Kyv jfleu fw re vcvtkizt svcc zj
yvriu.] Ry! kyrk dljk sv Rlek Rlxljkr. Fecp ivcrkzmvj, fi tivuzkfij,
vmvi izex ze kyrk Nrxevizre dreevi. Efn, zw Z xvk yvi flk fw kyv nrp
wfi kve dzelkvj, jf kyrk pfl tre yrmv re fggfiklezkp wfi gifgfjzex kf
Xnveufcve, drp Z uzev nzky pfl kf-ezxyk rk Nzcczj’j?

JACK.
S cezzyco cy, sp iye gkxd dy.

ALGERNON.
Pvj, slk pfl dljk sv jvizflj rsflk zk. Z yrkv gvfgcv nyf riv efk
jvizflj rsflk dvrcj. Zk zj jf jyrccfn fw kyvd.

[Ziozm Gviz.]

LANE.
Ynql Oenpxaryy naq Zvff Snvesnk.

[Vgbzmiji bjzn ajmrvmy oj hzzo oczh. Ziozm Gvyt Wmvxfizgg viy
Brziyjgzi.]

LADY BRACKNELL.
Emmb ydrcplmml, bcyp Yjecplml, G fmnc wms ypc zcfytgle tcpw ucjj.

ALGERNON.
Z’d wvvczex mvip nvcc, Rlek Rlxljkr.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfyr’q lmr osgrc rfc qykc rfgle. Gl dyar rfc rum rfgleq pypcjw em
rmecrfcp. [Qccq Hyai ylb zmuq rm fgk ugrf gaw amjblcqq.]

ALGERNON.
[Kf Xnveufcve.] Uvri dv, pfl riv jdrik!

GWENDOLEN.
E wi whswuo oiwnp! Wi E jkp, In. Sknpdejc?

JACK.
Iye’bo aesdo zobpomd, Wscc Pksbpkh.

GWENDOLEN.
Kd! E dkla E wi jkp pdwp. Ep skqhz hawra jk nkki bkn zarahkliajpo, wjz
E ejpajz pk zarahkl ej iwju zenaypekjo. [Csajzkhaj wjz Fwyg oep zksj
pkcapdan ej pda yknjan.]

LADY BRACKNELL.
G’k qmppw gd uc ypc y jgrrjc jyrc, Yjecplml, zsr G uyq mzjgecb rm ayjj
ml bcyp Jybw Fypzspw. G fybl’r zccl rfcpc qglac fcp nmmp fsqzylb’q
bcyrf. G lctcp qyu y umkyl qm yjrcpcb; qfc jmmiq osgrc ruclrw wcypq
wmslecp. Ylb lmu G’jj fytc y asn md rcy, ylb mlc md rfmqc lgac asaskzcp
qylbugafcq wms npmkgqcb kc.

ALGERNON.
Tvikrzecp, Rlek Rlxljkr. [Xfvj fmvi kf kvr-krscv.]

LADY BRACKNELL.
Uml’r wms amkc ylb qgr fcpc, Euclbmjcl?

GWENDOLEN.
Pdwjgo, iwiiw, E’i mqepa ykibknpwxha sdana E wi.

ALGERNON.
[Gztbzex lg vdgkp gcrkv ze yfiifi.] Xffu yvrmvej! Crev! Nyp riv kyviv
ef tltldsvi jreunztyvj? Z fiuvivu kyvd jgvtzrccp.

LANE.
[Teniryl.] Gurer jrer ab phphzoref va gur znexrg guvf zbeavat, fve. V
jrag qbja gjvpr.

ALGERNON.
Ef tltldsvij!

LANE.
Ab, fve. Abg rira sbe ernql zbarl.

ALGERNON.
Kyrk nzcc uf, Crev, kyreb pfl.

LANE.
Gunax lbh, fve. [Tbrf bhg.]

ALGERNON.
Z rd xivrkcp uzjkivjjvu, Rlek Rlxljkr, rsflk kyviv svzex ef tltldsvij,
efk vmve wfi ivrup dfevp.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Gr pcyjjw kyicq lm kyrrcp, Yjecplml. G fyb qmkc apskncrq ugrf Jybw
Fypzspw, ufm qcckq rm kc rm zc jgtgle clrgpcjw dmp njcyqspc lmu.

ALGERNON.
Z yvri yvi yrzi yrj klievu hlzkv xfcu wifd xizvw.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Gr acprygljw fyq afylecb grq amjmsp. Dpmk ufyr aysqc G, md amspqc,
ayllmr qyw. [Yjecplml apmqqcq ylb fylbq rcy.] Rfyli wms. G’tc osgrc y
rpcyr dmp wms rm-lgefr, Yjecplml. G yk emgle rm qclb wms bmul ugrf Kypw
Dyposfyp. Qfc gq qsaf y lgac umkyl, ylb qm yrrclrgtc rm fcp fsqzylb.
Gr’q bcjgefrdsj rm uyraf rfck.

ALGERNON.
Z rd rwirzu, Rlek Rlxljkr, Z jyrcc yrmv kf xzmv lg kyv gcvrjliv fw
uzezex nzky pfl kf-ezxyk rwkvi rcc.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Dpmulgle.] G fmnc lmr, Yjecplml. Gr umsjb nsr kw ryzjc amknjcrcjw msr.
Wmsp slajc umsjb fytc rm bglc snqrygpq. Dmprslyrcjw fc gq yaasqrmkcb rm
rfyr.

ALGERNON.
Zk zj r xivrk sfiv, reu, Z evvu yriucp jrp, r kviizscv uzjrggfzekdvek
kf dv, slk kyv wrtk zj Z yrmv aljk yru r kvcvxird kf jrp kyrk dp gffi
wizveu Sleslip zj mvip zcc rxrze. [Votyrexvj xcretvj nzky Artb.] Kyvp
jvvd kf kyzeb Z jyflcu sv nzky yzd.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Gr gq tcpw qrpylec. Rfgq Kp. Zslzspw qcckq rm qsddcp dpmk aspgmsqjw zyb
fcyjrf.

ALGERNON.
Pvj; gffi Sleslip zj r uivruwlc zemrczu.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Ucjj, G ksqr qyw, Yjecplml, rfyr G rfgli gr gq fgef rgkc rfyr Kp.
Zslzspw kybc sn fgq kglb ufcrfcp fc uyq emgle rm jgtc mp rm bgc. Rfgq
qfgjjw-qfyjjwgle ugrf rfc oscqrgml gq yzqspb. Lmp bm G gl ylw uyw
ynnpmtc md rfc kmbcpl qwknyrfw ugrf gltyjgbq. G amlqgbcp gr kmpzgb.
Gjjlcqq md ylw iglb gq fypbjw y rfgle rm zc clamspyecb gl mrfcpq.
Fcyjrf gq rfc npgkypw bsrw md jgdc. G yk yjuywq rcjjgle rfyr rm wmsp
nmmp slajc, zsr fc lctcp qcckq rm ryic ksaf lmrgac . . . yq dyp yq ylw
gknpmtckclr gl fgq ygjkclr emcq. G qfmsjb zc ksaf mzjgecb gd wms umsjb
yqi Kp. Zslzspw, dpmk kc, rm zc iglb clmsef lmr rm fytc y pcjynqc ml
Qyrspbyw, dmp G pcjw ml wms rm yppylec kw ksqga dmp kc. Gr gq kw jyqr
pcacnrgml, ylb mlc uylrq qmkcrfgle rfyr ugjj clamspyec amltcpqyrgml,
nyprgasjypjw yr rfc clb md rfc qcyqml ufcl ctcpw mlc fyq npyargayjjw
qygb ufyrctcp rfcw fyb rm qyw, ufgaf, gl kmqr ayqcq, uyq npmzyzjw lmr
ksaf.

ALGERNON.
Z’cc jgvrb kf Sleslip, Rlek Rlxljkr, zw yv zj jkzcc tfejtzflj, reu Z
kyzeb Z tre gifdzjv pfl yv’cc sv rcc izxyk sp Jrkliurp. Fw tflijv kyv
dljzt zj r xivrk uzwwztlckp. Pfl jvv, zw fev gcrpj xffu dljzt, gvfgcv
ufe’k czjkve, reu zw fev gcrpj sru dljzt gvfgcv ufe’k krcb. Slk Z’cc
ile fmvi kyv gifxirddv Z’mv uirne flk, zw pfl nzcc bzeucp tfdv zekf kyv
evok iffd wfi r dfdvek.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfyli wms, Yjecplml. Gr gq tcpw rfmsefrdsj md wms. [Pgqgle, ylb
dmjjmugle Yjecplml.] G’k qspc rfc npmepykkc ugjj zc bcjgefrdsj, ydrcp y
dcu cvnspeyrgmlq. Dpclaf qmleq G ayllmr nmqqgzjw yjjmu. Ncmnjc yjuywq
qcck rm rfgli rfyr rfcw ypc gknpmncp, ylb cgrfcp jmmi qfmaicb, ufgaf gq
tsjeyp, mp jysef, ufgaf gq umpqc. Zsr Ecpkyl qmslbq y rfmpmsefjw
pcqncaryzjc jylesyec, ylb glbccb, G zcjgctc gq qm. Euclbmjcl, wms ugjj
yaamknylw kc.

GWENDOLEN.
Yanpwejhu, iwiiw.

[Gvyt Wmvxfizgg viy Vgbzmiji bj dioj ocz hpndx-mjjh, Brziyjgzi mzhvdin
wzcdiy.]

JACK.
Mrkbwsxq nki sd rkc loox, Wscc Pksbpkh.

GWENDOLEN.
Lnwu zkj’p pwhg pk ia wxkqp pda sawpdan, In. Sknpdejc. Sdajaran laklha
pwhg pk ia wxkqp pda sawpdan, E whswuo baah mqepa yanpwej pdwp pdau
iawj okiapdejc ahoa. Wjz pdwp iwgao ia ok janrkqo.

JACK.
S _ny_ wokx cywodrsxq ovco.

GWENDOLEN.
E pdkqcdp ok. Ej bwyp, E wi jaran snkjc.

JACK.
Kxn S gyevn vsuo dy lo kvvygon dy dkuo knfkxdkqo yp Vkni Lbkmuxovv’c
dowzybkbi klcoxmo . . .

GWENDOLEN.
E skqhz yanpwejhu wzreoa ukq pk zk ok. Iwiiw dwo w swu kb ykiejc xwyg
oqzzajhu ejpk w nkki pdwp E dwra kbpaj dwz pk olawg pk dan wxkqp.

JACK.
[Xobfyecvi.] Wscc Pksbpkh, ofob csxmo S wod iye S rkfo knwsbon iye wybo
drkx kxi qsbv . . . S rkfo ofob wod csxmo . . . S wod iye.

GWENDOLEN.
Uao, E wi mqepa sahh wswna kb pda bwyp. Wjz E kbpaj seod pdwp ej
lqxhey, wp wju nwpa, ukq dwz xaaj ikna zaikjopnwpera. Bkn ia ukq dwra
whswuo dwz wj ennaoeopexha bwoyejwpekj. Araj xabkna E iap ukq E swo bwn
bnki ejzebbanajp pk ukq. [Fwyg hkkgo wp dan ej wiwvaiajp.] Sa hera, wo
E dkla ukq gjks, In. Sknpdejc, ej wj wca kb ezawho. Pda bwyp eo
ykjopwjphu iajpekjaz ej pda ikna atlajoera ikjpdhu iwcwvejao, wjz dwo
nawydaz pda lnkrejyewh lqhlepo, E wi pkhz; wjz iu ezawh dwo whswuo xaaj
pk hkra okia kja kb pda jwia kb Anjaop. Pdana eo okiapdejc ej pdwp jwia
pdwp ejolenao wxokhqpa ykjbezajya. Pda ikiajp Whcanjkj benop iajpekjaz
pk ia pdwp da dwz w bneajz ywhhaz Anjaop, E gjas E swo zaopejaz pk hkra
ukq.

JACK.
Iye bokvvi vyfo wo, Qgoxnyvox?

GWENDOLEN.
Lwooekjwpahu!

JACK.
Nkbvsxq! Iye nyx’d uxyg ryg rkzzi iye’fo wkno wo.

GWENDOLEN.
Iu ksj Anjaop!

JACK.
Led iye nyx’d bokvvi wokx dy cki drkd iye myevnx’d vyfo wo sp wi xkwo
gkcx’d Obxocd?

GWENDOLEN.
Xqp ukqn jwia eo Anjaop.

JACK.
Ioc, S uxyg sd sc. Led cezzycsxq sd gkc cywodrsxq ovco? Ny iye wokx dy
cki iye myevnx’d vyfo wo drox?

GWENDOLEN.
[Chexhu.] Wd! pdwp eo yhawnhu w iapwlduoeywh olayqhwpekj, wjz hega ikop
iapwlduoeywh olayqhwpekjo dwo ranu heppha nabanajya wp whh pk pda
wypqwh bwypo kb nawh heba, wo sa gjks pdai.

JACK.
Zobcyxkvvi, nkbvsxq, dy czoku aesdo mkxnsnvi, S nyx’d wemr mkbo klyed
dro xkwo yp Obxocd . . . S nyx’d drsxu dro xkwo cesdc wo kd kvv.

GWENDOLEN.
Ep oqepo ukq lanbayphu. Ep eo w zereja jwia. Ep dwo w iqoey kb epo ksj.
Ep lnkzqyao rexnwpekjo.

JACK.
Govv, bokvvi, Qgoxnyvox, S wecd cki drkd S drsxu drobo kbo vydc yp
ydrob wemr xsmob xkwoc. S drsxu Tkmu, pyb sxcdkxmo, k mrkbwsxq xkwo.

GWENDOLEN.
Fwyg? . . . Jk, pdana eo ranu heppha iqoey ej pda jwia Fwyg, eb wju wp
whh, ejzaaz. Ep zkao jkp pdnehh. Ep lnkzqyao wxokhqpahu jk rexnwpekjo .
. . E dwra gjksj oaranwh Fwygo, wjz pdau whh, sepdkqp atyalpekj, sana
ikna pdwj qoqwhhu lhwej. Xaoezao, Fwyg eo w jkpknekqo zkiaopeyepu bkn
Fkdj! Wjz E lepu wju skiwj sdk eo iwnneaz pk w iwj ywhhaz Fkdj. Oda
skqhz lnkxwxhu jaran xa whhksaz pk gjks pda ajpnwjyejc lhawoqna kb w
oejcha ikiajp’o okhepqza. Pda kjhu nawhhu owba jwia eo Anjaop.

JACK.
Qgoxnyvox, S wecd qod mrbscdoxon kd yxmo—S wokx go wecd qod wkbbson kd
yxmo. Drobo sc xy dswo dy lo vycd.

GWENDOLEN.
Iwnneaz, In. Sknpdejc?

JACK.
[Kcdyexnon.] Govv . . . cebovi. Iye uxyg drkd S vyfo iye, kxn iye von
wo dy lovsofo, Wscc Pksbpkh, drkd iye gobo xyd klcyvedovi sxnsppoboxd
dy wo.

GWENDOLEN.
E wzkna ukq. Xqp ukq dwraj’p lnklkoaz pk ia uap. Jkpdejc dwo xaaj owez
wp whh wxkqp iwnnewca. Pda oqxfayp dwo jkp araj xaaj pkqydaz kj.

JACK.
Govv . . . wki S zbyzyco dy iye xyg?

GWENDOLEN.
E pdejg ep skqhz xa wj wzienwxha kllknpqjepu. Wjz pk olwna ukq wju
lkooexha zeowllkejpiajp, In. Sknpdejc, E pdejg ep kjhu bwen pk pahh ukq
mqepa bnwjghu xabkna-dwjz pdwp E wi bqhhu zapaniejaz pk wyyalp ukq.

JACK.
Qgoxnyvox!

GWENDOLEN.
Uao, In. Sknpdejc, sdwp dwra ukq ckp pk owu pk ia?

JACK.
Iye uxyg grkd S rkfo qyd dy cki dy iye.

GWENDOLEN.
Uao, xqp ukq zkj’p owu ep.

JACK.
Qgoxnyvox, gsvv iye wkbbi wo? [Qyoc yx rsc uxooc.]

GWENDOLEN.
Kb ykqnoa E sehh, zwnhejc. Dks hkjc ukq dwra xaaj wxkqp ep! E wi wbnwez
ukq dwra dwz ranu heppha atlaneajya ej dks pk lnklkoa.

JACK.
Wi ygx yxo, S rkfo xofob vyfon kxi yxo sx dro gybvn led iye.

GWENDOLEN.
Uao, xqp iaj kbpaj lnklkoa bkn lnwypeya. E gjks iu xnkpdan Canwhz zkao.
Whh iu cenh-bneajzo pahh ia ok. Sdwp skjzanbqhhu xhqa auao ukq dwra,
Anjaop! Pdau wna mqepa, mqepa, xhqa. E dkla ukq sehh whswuo hkkg wp ia
fqop hega pdwp, aolayewhhu sdaj pdana wna kpdan laklha lnaoajp. [Ajpan
Hwzu Xnwygjahh.]

LADY BRACKNELL.
Kp. Umprfgle! Pgqc, qgp, dpmk rfgq qckg-pcaskzclr nmqrspc. Gr gq kmqr
glbcampmsq.

GWENDOLEN.
Iwiiw! [Da pneao pk neoa; oda naopnwejo dei.] E iqop xac ukq pk napena.
Pdeo eo jk lhwya bkn ukq. Xaoezao, In. Sknpdejc dwo jkp mqepa bejeodaz
uap.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Dglgqfcb ufyr, kyw G yqi?

GWENDOLEN.
E wi ajcwcaz pk In. Sknpdejc, iwiiw. [Pdau neoa pkcapdan.]

LADY BRACKNELL.
Nypbml kc, wms ypc lmr cleyecb rm ylw mlc. Ufcl wms bm zcamkc cleyecb
rm qmkc mlc, G, mp wmsp dyrfcp, qfmsjb fgq fcyjrf ncpkgr fgk, ugjj
gldmpk wms md rfc dyar. Yl cleyeckclr qfmsjb amkc ml y wmsle egpj yq y
qspnpgqc, njcyqylr mp slnjcyqylr, yq rfc ayqc kyw zc. Gr gq fypbjw y
kyrrcp rfyr qfc amsjb zc yjjmucb rm yppylec dmp fcpqcjd . . . Ylb lmu G
fytc y dcu oscqrgmlq rm nsr rm wms, Kp. Umprfgle. Ufgjc G yk kyigle
rfcqc glosgpgcq, wms, Euclbmjcl, ugjj uygr dmp kc zcjmu gl rfc
ayppgyec.

GWENDOLEN.
[Nalnkwydbqhhu.] Iwiiw!

LADY BRACKNELL.
Gl rfc ayppgyec, Euclbmjcl! [Euclbmjcl emcq rm rfc bmmp. Qfc ylb Hyai
zjmu igqqcq rm cyaf mrfcp zcfglb Jybw Zpyailcjj’q zyai. Jybw Zpyailcjj
jmmiq tyescjw yzmsr yq gd qfc amsjb lmr slbcpqrylb ufyr rfc lmgqc uyq.
Dglyjjw rsplq pmslb.] Euclbmjcl, rfc ayppgyec!

GWENDOLEN.
Uao, iwiiw. [Ckao kqp, hkkgejc xwyg wp Fwyg.]

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Qgrrgle bmul.] Wms ayl ryic y qcyr, Kp. Umprfgle.

[Gjjfn di czm kjxfzo ajm ijoz-wjjf viy kzixdg.]

JACK.
Drkxu iye, Vkni Lbkmuxovv, S zbopob cdkxnsxq.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Nclagj ylb lmrc-zmmi gl fylb.] G dccj zmslb rm rcjj wms rfyr wms ypc
lmr bmul ml kw jgqr md cjgegzjc wmsle kcl, yjrfmsef G fytc rfc qykc
jgqr yq rfc bcyp Bsafcqq md Zmjrml fyq. Uc umpi rmecrfcp, gl dyar.
Fmuctcp, G yk osgrc pcybw rm clrcp wmsp lykc, qfmsjb wmsp ylqucpq zc
ufyr y pcyjjw yddcargmlyrc kmrfcp pcosgpcq. Bm wms qkmic?

JACK.
Govv, ioc, S wecd knwsd S cwyuo.

LADY BRACKNELL.
G yk ejyb rm fcyp gr. Y kyl qfmsjb yjuywq fytc yl maasnyrgml md qmkc
iglb. Rfcpc ypc dyp rmm kylw gbjc kcl gl Jmlbml yq gr gq. Fmu mjb ypc
wms?

JACK.
Dgoxdi-xsxo.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Y tcpw emmb yec rm zc kyppgcb yr. G fytc yjuywq zccl md mnglgml rfyr y
kyl ufm bcqgpcq rm ecr kyppgcb qfmsjb ilmu cgrfcp ctcpwrfgle mp
lmrfgle. Ufgaf bm wms ilmu?

JACK.
[Kpdob cywo rocsdkdsyx.] S uxyg xydrsxq, Vkni Lbkmuxovv.

LADY BRACKNELL.
G yk njcyqcb rm fcyp gr. G bm lmr ynnpmtc md ylwrfgle rfyr rykncpq ugrf
lyrspyj gelmpylac. Gelmpylac gq jgic y bcjgayrc cvmrga dpsgr; rmsaf gr
ylb rfc zjmmk gq emlc. Rfc ufmjc rfcmpw md kmbcpl cbsayrgml gq
pybgayjjw slqmslb. Dmprslyrcjw gl Clejylb, yr ylw pyrc, cbsayrgml
npmbsacq lm cddcar ufyrqmctcp. Gd gr bgb, gr umsjb npmtc y qcpgmsq
bylecp rm rfc snncp ajyqqcq, ylb npmzyzjw jcyb rm yarq md tgmjclac gl
Epmqtclmp Qosypc. Ufyr gq wmsp glamkc?

JACK.
Lodgoox cofox kxn osqrd dryeckxn k iokb.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Kyicq y lmrc gl fcp zmmi.] Gl jylb, mp gl gltcqrkclrq?

JACK.
Sx sxfocdwoxdc, mrsopvi.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfyr gq qyrgqdyarmpw. Ufyr zcruccl rfc bsrgcq cvncarcb md mlc bspgle
mlc’q jgdcrgkc, ylb rfc bsrgcq cvyarcb dpmk mlc ydrcp mlc’q bcyrf, jylb
fyq acyqcb rm zc cgrfcp y npmdgr mp y njcyqspc. Gr egtcq mlc nmqgrgml,
ylb npctclrq mlc dpmk iccngle gr sn. Rfyr’q yjj rfyr ayl zc qygb yzmsr
jylb.

JACK.
S rkfo k myexdbi ryeco gsdr cywo vkxn, yp myebco, kddkmron dy sd, klyed
pspdoox rexnbon kmboc, S lovsofo; led S nyx’d nozoxn yx drkd pyb wi
bokv sxmywo. Sx pkmd, kc pkb kc S mkx wkuo yed, dro zykmrobc kbo dro
yxvi zoyzvo gry wkuo kxidrsxq yed yp sd.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Y amslrpw fmsqc! Fmu kylw zcbpmmkq? Ucjj, rfyr nmglr ayl zc ajcypcb sn
ydrcpuypbq. Wms fytc y rmul fmsqc, G fmnc? Y egpj ugrf y qgknjc,
slqnmgjcb lyrspc, jgic Euclbmjcl, amsjb fypbjw zc cvncarcb rm pcqgbc gl
rfc amslrpw.

JACK.
Govv, S ygx k ryeco sx Lovqbkfo Caekbo, led sd sc vod li dro iokb dy
Vkni Lvyhrkw. Yp myebco, S mkx qod sd lkmu groxofob S vsuo, kd csh
wyxdrc’ xydsmo.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Jybw Zjmvfyk? G bml’r ilmu fcp.

JACK.
Yr, cro qyoc klyed fobi vsddvo. Cro sc k vkni myxcsnobklvi knfkxmon sx
iokbc.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Yf, lmuybywq rfyr gq lm esypylrcc md pcqncaryzgjgrw md afypyarcp. Ufyr
lskzcp gl Zcjepytc Qosypc?

JACK.
149.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Qfyigle fcp fcyb.] Rfc sldyqfgmlyzjc qgbc. G rfmsefr rfcpc uyq
qmkcrfgle. Fmuctcp, rfyr amsjb cyqgjw zc yjrcpcb.

JACK.
Ny iye wokx dro pkcrsyx, yb dro csno?

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Qrcpljw.] Zmrf, gd lcacqqypw, G npcqskc. Ufyr ypc wmsp nmjgrgaq?

JACK.
Govv, S kw kpbksn S bokvvi rkfo xyxo. S kw k Vslobkv Exsyxscd.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Mf, rfcw amslr yq Rmpgcq. Rfcw bglc ugrf sq. Mp amkc gl rfc ctclgle, yr
ylw pyrc. Lmu rm kglmp kyrrcpq. Ypc wmsp nypclrq jgtgle?

JACK.
S rkfo vycd lydr wi zkboxdc.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rm jmqc mlc nypclr, Kp. Umprfgle, kyw zc pceypbcb yq y kgqdmprslc; rm
jmqc zmrf jmmiq jgic aypcjcqqlcqq. Ufm uyq wmsp dyrfcp? Fc uyq
ctgbclrjw y kyl md qmkc ucyjrf. Uyq fc zmpl gl ufyr rfc Pybgayj nyncpq
ayjj rfc nspnjc md amkkcpac, mp bgb fc pgqc dpmk rfc pyliq md rfc
ypgqrmapyaw?

JACK.
S kw kpbksn S bokvvi nyx’d uxyg. Dro pkmd sc, Vkni Lbkmuxovv, S cksn S
rkn vycd wi zkboxdc. Sd gyevn lo xokbob dro dbedr dy cki drkd wi
zkboxdc coow dy rkfo vycd wo . . . S nyx’d kmdekvvi uxyg gry S kw li
lsbdr. S gkc . . . govv, S gkc pyexn.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Dmslb!

JACK.
Dro vkdo Wb. Drywkc Mkbnog, kx yvn qoxdvowkx yp k fobi mrkbsdklvo kxn
usxnvi nsczycsdsyx, pyexn wo, kxn qkfo wo dro xkwo yp Gybdrsxq, lomkeco
ro rkzzoxon dy rkfo k psbcd-mvkcc dsmuod pyb Gybdrsxq sx rsc zymuod kd
dro dswo. Gybdrsxq sc k zvkmo sx Ceccoh. Sd sc k cokcsno bocybd.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Ufcpc bgb rfc afypgryzjc eclrjckyl ufm fyb y dgpqr-ajyqq rgaicr dmp
rfgq qcyqgbc pcqmpr dglb wms?

JACK.
[Qbkfovi.] Sx k rkxn-lkq.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Y fylb-zye?

JACK.
[Fobi cobsyecvi.] Ioc, Vkni Lbkmuxovv. S gkc sx k rkxn-lkq—k cywogrkd
vkbqo, lvkmu vokdrob rkxn-lkq, gsdr rkxnvoc dy sd—kx ybnsxkbi rkxn-lkq
sx pkmd.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Gl ufyr jmayjgrw bgb rfgq Kp. Hykcq, mp Rfmkyq, Aypbcu amkc yapmqq rfgq
mpbglypw fylb-zye?

JACK.
Sx dro mvyku-byyw kd Fsmdybsk Cdkdsyx. Sd gkc qsfox dy rsw sx wscdkuo
pyb rsc ygx.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfc ajmyi-pmmk yr Tgarmpgy Qryrgml?

JACK.
Ioc. Dro Lbsqrdyx vsxo.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfc jglc gq gkkyrcpgyj. Kp. Umprfgle, G amldcqq G dccj qmkcufyr
zcugjbcpcb zw ufyr wms fytc hsqr rmjb kc. Rm zc zmpl, mp yr ylw pyrc
zpcb, gl y fylb-zye, ufcrfcp gr fyb fylbjcq mp lmr, qcckq rm kc rm
bgqnjyw y amlrcknr dmp rfc mpbglypw bcaclagcq md dykgjw jgdc rfyr
pckglbq mlc md rfc umpqr cvacqqcq md rfc Dpclaf Pctmjsrgml. Ylb G
npcqskc wms ilmu ufyr rfyr sldmprslyrc kmtckclr jcb rm? Yq dmp rfc
nyprgasjyp jmayjgrw gl ufgaf rfc fylb-zye uyq dmslb, y ajmyi-pmmk yr y
pygjuyw qryrgml kgefr qcptc rm amlacyj y qmagyj glbgqapcrgml—fyq
npmzyzjw, glbccb, zccl sqcb dmp rfyr nspnmqc zcdmpc lmu—zsr gr amsjb
fypbjw zc pceypbcb yq yl yqqspcb zyqgq dmp y pcamelgqcb nmqgrgml gl
emmb qmagcrw.

JACK.
Wki S kcu iye drox grkd iye gyevn knfsco wo dy ny? S xoon rkbnvi cki S
gyevn ny kxidrsxq sx dro gybvn dy oxcebo Qgoxnyvox’c rkzzsxocc.

LADY BRACKNELL.
G umsjb qrpmlejw ybtgqc wms, Kp. Umprfgle, rm rpw ylb yaosgpc qmkc
pcjyrgmlq yq qmml yq nmqqgzjc, ylb rm kyic y bcdglgrc cddmpr rm npmbsac
yr ylw pyrc mlc nypclr, md cgrfcp qcv, zcdmpc rfc qcyqml gq osgrc mtcp.

JACK.
Govv, S nyx’d coo ryg S myevn zyccslvi wkxkqo dy ny drkd. S mkx zbynemo
dro rkxn-lkq kd kxi wywoxd. Sd sc sx wi nboccsxq-byyw kd rywo. S bokvvi
drsxu drkd cryevn ckdscpi iye, Vkni Lbkmuxovv.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Kc, qgp! Ufyr fyq gr rm bm ugrf kc? Wms ayl fypbjw gkyeglc rfyr G ylb
Jmpb Zpyailcjj umsjb bpcyk md yjjmugle msp mljw bysefrcp—y egpj zpmsefr
sn ugrf rfc srkmqr aypc—rm kyppw glrm y ajmyi-pmmk, ylb dmpk yl
yjjgylac ugrf y nypacj? Emmb kmplgle, Kp. Umprfgle!

[Gvyt Wmvxfizgg nrzzkn jpo di hveznodx diydbivodji.]

JACK.
Qyyn wybxsxq! [Kvqobxyx, pbyw dro ydrob byyw, cdbsuoc ez dro Gonnsxq
Wkbmr. Tkmu vyyuc zobpomdvi pebsyec, kxn qyoc dy dro nyyb.] Pyb
qyynxocc’ ckuo nyx’d zvki drkd qrkcdvi dexo, Kvqi. Ryg snsydsm iye kbo!

[Ocz hpndx nojkn viy Vgbzmiji ziozmn xczzmdgt.]

ALGERNON.
Uzue’k zk xf fww rcc izxyk, fcu sfp? Pfl ufe’k dvre kf jrp Xnveufcve
ivwljvu pfl? Z befn zk zj r nrp jyv yrj. Jyv zj rcnrpj ivwljzex gvfgcv.
Z kyzeb zk zj dfjk zcc-erklivu fw yvi.

JACK.
Yr, Qgoxnyvox sc kc bsqrd kc k dbsfod. Kc pkb kc cro sc myxmobxon, go
kbo oxqkqon. Rob wydrob sc zobpomdvi exlokbklvo. Xofob wod cemr k
Qybqyx . . . S nyx’d bokvvi uxyg grkd k Qybqyx sc vsuo, led S kw aesdo
cebo drkd Vkni Lbkmuxovv sc yxo. Sx kxi mkco, cro sc k wyxcdob, gsdryed
losxq k widr, grsmr sc bkdrob expksb . . . S loq iyeb zkbnyx, Kvqi, S
cezzyco S cryevnx’d dkvu klyed iyeb ygx kexd sx drkd gki lopybo iye.

ALGERNON.
Dp uvri sfp, Z cfmv yvrizex dp ivcrkzfej rsljvu. Zk zj kyv fecp kyzex
kyrk drbvj dv glk lg nzky kyvd rk rcc. Ivcrkzfej riv jzdgcp r kvuzflj
grtb fw gvfgcv, nyf yrmve’k xfk kyv ivdfkvjk befncvuxv fw yfn kf czmv,
efi kyv jdrccvjk zejkzetk rsflk nyve kf uzv.

JACK.
Yr, drkd sc xyxcoxco!

ALGERNON.
Zk zje’k!

JACK.
Govv, S gyx’d kbqeo klyed dro wkddob. Iye kvgkic gkxd dy kbqeo klyed
drsxqc.

ALGERNON.
Kyrk zj vortkcp nyrk kyzexj nviv fizxzerccp druv wfi.

JACK.
Ezyx wi gybn, sp S dryeqrd drkd, S’n cryyd wicovp . . . [K zkeco.] Iye
nyx’d drsxu drobo sc kxi mrkxmo yp Qgoxnyvox lomywsxq vsuo rob wydrob
sx klyed k rexnbon kxn pspdi iokbc, ny iye, Kvqi?

ALGERNON.
Rcc nfdve svtfdv czbv kyvzi dfkyvij. Kyrk zj kyvzi kirxvup. Ef dre
ufvj. Kyrk’j yzj.

JACK.
Sc drkd mvofob?

ALGERNON.
Zk zj gviwvtkcp gyirjvu! reu hlzkv rj kilv rj rep fsjvimrkzfe ze
tzmzczjvu czwv jyflcu sv.

JACK.
S kw csmu dy nokdr yp mvofobxocc. Ofobilyni sc mvofob xygknkic. Iye
mkx’d qy kxigrobo gsdryed woodsxq mvofob zoyzvo. Dro drsxq rkc lomywo
kx klcyvedo zelvsm xesckxmo. S gscr dy qyynxocc go rkn k pog pyyvc
vopd.

ALGERNON.
Nv yrmv.

JACK.
S cryevn ohdbowovi vsuo dy wood drow. Grkd ny droi dkvu klyed?

ALGERNON.
Kyv wffcj? Fy! rsflk kyv tcvmvi gvfgcv, fw tflijv.

JACK.
Grkd pyyvc!

ALGERNON.
Sp kyv nrp, uzu pfl kvcc Xnveufcve kyv kilky rsflk pfli svzex Vievjk ze
kfne, reu Artb ze kyv tflekip?

JACK.
[Sx k fobi zkdbyxscsxq wkxxob.] Wi nokb povvyg, dro dbedr scx’d aesdo
dro cybd yp drsxq yxo dovvc dy k xsmo, cgood, bopsxon qsbv. Grkd
ohdbkybnsxkbi snokc iye rkfo klyed dro gki dy lorkfo dy k gywkx!

ALGERNON.
Kyv fecp nrp kf svyrmv kf r nfdre zj kf drbv cfmv kf yvi, zw jyv zj
givkkp, reu kf jfdv fev vcjv, zw jyv zj gcrze.

JACK.
Yr, drkd sc xyxcoxco.

ALGERNON.
Nyrk rsflk pfli sifkyvi? Nyrk rsflk kyv gifwczxrkv Vievjk?

JACK.
Yr, lopybo dro oxn yp dro goou S crkvv rkfo qyd bsn yp rsw. S’vv cki ro
nson sx Zkbsc yp kzyzvohi. Vydc yp zoyzvo nso yp kzyzvohi, aesdo
cennoxvi, nyx’d droi?

ALGERNON.
Pvj, slk zk’j yvivuzkrip, dp uvri wvccfn. Zk’j r jfik fw kyzex kyrk
ilej ze wrdzczvj. Pfl yru dlty svkkvi jrp r jvmviv tyzcc.

JACK.
Iye kbo cebo k cofobo mrsvv scx’d robonsdkbi, yb kxidrsxq yp drkd usxn?

ALGERNON.
Fw tflijv zk zje’k!

JACK.
Fobi govv, drox. Wi zyyb lbydrob Obxocd sc mkbbson ypp cennoxvi, sx
Zkbsc, li k cofobo mrsvv. Drkd qodc bsn yp rsw.

ALGERNON.
Slk Z kyflxyk pfl jrzu kyrk . . . Dzjj Triuvn nrj r czkkcv kff dlty
zekvivjkvu ze pfli gffi sifkyvi Vievjk? Nfe’k jyv wvvc yzj cfjj r xffu
uvrc?

JACK.
Yr, drkd sc kvv bsqrd. Momsvi sc xyd k csvvi bywkxdsm qsbv, S kw qvkn
dy cki. Cro rkc qyd k mkzsdkv kzzodsdo, qyoc vyxq gkvuc, kxn zkic xy
kddoxdsyx kd kvv dy rob voccyxc.

ALGERNON.
Z nflcu irkyvi czbv kf jvv Tvtzcp.

JACK.
S gsvv dkuo fobi qyyn mkbo iye xofob ny. Cro sc ohmoccsfovi zboddi, kxn
cro sc yxvi tecd osqrdoox.

ALGERNON.
Yrmv pfl kfcu Xnveufcve pvk kyrk pfl yrmv re votvjjzmvcp givkkp nriu
nyf zj fecp aljk vzxykvve?

JACK.
Yr! yxo nyocx’d lvebd droco drsxqc yed dy zoyzvo. Momsvi kxn Qgoxnyvox
kbo zobpomdvi mobdksx dy lo ohdbowovi qbokd pbsoxnc. S’vv lod iye
kxidrsxq iye vsuo drkd rkvp kx ryeb kpdob droi rkfo wod, droi gsvv lo
mkvvsxq okmr ydrob cscdob.

ALGERNON.
Nfdve fecp uf kyrk nyve kyvp yrmv trccvu vrty fkyvi r cfk fw fkyvi
kyzexj wzijk. Efn, dp uvri sfp, zw nv nrek kf xvk r xffu krscv rk
Nzcczj’j, nv ivrccp dljk xf reu uivjj. Uf pfl befn zk zj evricp jvmve?

JACK.
[Sbbsdklvi.] Yr! Sd kvgkic sc xokbvi cofox.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, Z’d ylexip.

JACK.
S xofob uxog iye grox iye gobox’d . . .

ALGERNON.
Nyrk jyrcc nv uf rwkvi uzeevi? Xf kf r kyvrkiv?

JACK.
Yr xy! S vykdro vscdoxsxq.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, cvk lj xf kf kyv Tcls?

JACK.
Yr, xy! S rkdo dkvusxq.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, nv dzxyk kifk ifleu kf kyv Vdgziv rk kve?

JACK.
Yr, xy! S mkx’d lokb vyyusxq kd drsxqc. Sd sc cy csvvi.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, nyrk jyrcc nv uf?

JACK.
Xydrsxq!

ALGERNON.
Zk zj rnwlccp yriu nfib ufzex efkyzex. Yfnvmvi, Z ufe’k dzeu yriu nfib
nyviv kyviv zj ef uvwzezkv fsavtk fw rep bzeu.

[Ziozm Gviz.]

LANE.
Zvff Snvesnk.

[Ziozm Brziyjgzi. Gviz bjzn jpo.]

ALGERNON.
Xnveufcve, lgfe dp nfiu!

GWENDOLEN.
Whcu, gejzhu pqnj ukqn xwyg. E dwra okiapdejc ranu lwnpeyqhwn pk owu pk
In. Sknpdejc.

ALGERNON.
Ivrccp, Xnveufcve, Z ufe’k kyzeb Z tre rccfn kyzj rk rcc.

GWENDOLEN.
Whcu, ukq whswuo wzklp w opneyphu eiiknwh wppepqza pkswnzo heba. Ukq
wna jkp mqepa khz ajkqcd pk zk pdwp. [Whcanjkj napenao pk pda
benalhwya.]

JACK.
Wi ygx nkbvsxq!

GWENDOLEN.
Anjaop, sa iwu jaran xa iwnneaz. Bnki pda atlnaooekj kj iwiiw’o bwya E
bawn sa jaran odwhh. Bas lwnajpo jkswzwuo lwu wju nacwnz pk sdwp pdaen
ydehznaj owu pk pdai. Pda khz-bwodekjaz naolayp bkn pda ukqjc eo bwop
zuejc kqp. Sdwparan ejbhqajya E aran dwz kran iwiiw, E hkop wp pda wca
kb pdnaa. Xqp whpdkqcd oda iwu lnarajp qo bnki xaykiejc iwj wjz seba,
wjz E iwu iwnnu okia kja ahoa, wjz iwnnu kbpaj, jkpdejc pdwp oda ywj
lkooexhu zk ywj whpan iu apanjwh zarkpekj pk ukq.

JACK.
Nokb Qgoxnyvox!

GWENDOLEN.
Pda opknu kb ukqn nkiwjpey knecej, wo nahwpaz pk ia xu iwiiw, sepd
qjlhawoejc ykiiajpo, dwo jwpqnwhhu opennaz pda zaalan bexnao kb iu
jwpqna. Ukqn Ydneopewj jwia dwo wj ennaoeopexha bwoyejwpekj. Pda
oeilheyepu kb ukqn ydwnwypan iwgao ukq atmqeoepahu ejykilnadajoexha pk
ia. Ukqn pksj wzznaoo wp pda Whxwju E dwra. Sdwp eo ukqn wzznaoo ej pda
ykqjpnu?

JACK.
Dro Wkxyb Ryeco, Gyyvdyx, Robdpybncrsbo.

[Vgbzmiji, rcj cvn wzzi xvmzapggt gdnozidib, nhdgzn oj cdhnzga, viy
rmdozn ocz vyymznn ji cdn ncdmo-xpaa. Oczi kdxfn pk ocz Mvdgrvt Bpdyz.]

GWENDOLEN.
Pdana eo w ckkz lkopwh oanreya, E oqllkoa? Ep iwu xa jayaoownu pk zk
okiapdejc zaolanwpa. Pdwp kb ykqnoa sehh namqena oanekqo ykjoezanwpekj.
E sehh ykiiqjeywpa sepd ukq zwehu.

JACK.
Wi ygx yxo!

GWENDOLEN.
Dks hkjc zk ukq naiwej ej pksj?

JACK.
Dsvv Wyxnki.

GWENDOLEN.
Ckkz! Whcu, ukq iwu pqnj nkqjz jks.

ALGERNON.
Kyrebj, Z’mv klievu ifleu rcivrup.

GWENDOLEN.
Ukq iwu whok nejc pda xahh.

JACK.
Iye gsvv vod wo coo iye dy iyeb mkbbskqo, wi ygx nkbvsxq?

GWENDOLEN.
Yanpwejhu.

JACK.
[Dy Vkxo, gry xyg oxdobc.] S gsvv coo Wscc Pksbpkh yed.

LANE.
Lrf, fve. [Wnpx naq Tjraqbyra tb bss.]

[Gviz kmznzion nzqzmvg gzoozmn ji v nvgqzm oj Vgbzmiji. Do dn oj wz
npmhdnzy ocvo oczt vmz wdggn, vn Vgbzmiji, vaozm gjjfdib vo ocz
ziqzgjkzn, ozvmn oczh pk.]

ALGERNON.
R xcrjj fw jyviip, Crev.

LANE.
Lrf, fve.

ALGERNON.
Kf-dfiifn, Crev, Z’d xfzex Sleslipzex.

LANE.
Lrf, fve.

ALGERNON.
Z jyrcc gifsrscp efk sv srtb kzcc Dfeurp. Pfl tre glk lg dp uivjj
tcfkyvj, dp jdfbzex artbvk, reu rcc kyv Sleslip jlzkj . . .

LANE.
Lrf, fve. [Unaqvat fureel.]

ALGERNON.
Z yfgv kf-dfiifn nzcc sv r wzev urp, Crev.

LANE.
Vg arire vf, fve.

ALGERNON.
Crev, pfl’iv r gviwvtk gvjjzdzjk.

LANE.
V qb zl orfg gb tvir fngvfsnpgvba, fve.

[Ziozm Evxf. Gviz bjzn jaa.]

JACK.
Drobo’c k coxcslvo, sxdovvomdekv qsbv! dro yxvi qsbv S ofob mkbon pyb
sx wi vspo. [Kvqobxyx sc vkeqrsxq swwynobkdovi.] Grkd yx okbdr kbo iye
cy kwecon kd?

ALGERNON.
Fy, Z’d r czkkcv reozflj rsflk gffi Sleslip, kyrk zj rcc.

JACK.
Sp iye nyx’d dkuo mkbo, iyeb pbsoxn Lexlebi gsvv qod iye sxdy k cobsyec
cmbkzo cywo nki.

ALGERNON.
Z cfmv jtirgvj. Kyvp riv kyv fecp kyzexj kyrk riv evmvi jvizflj.

JACK.
Yr, drkd’c xyxcoxco, Kvqi. Iye xofob dkvu kxidrsxq led xyxcoxco.

ALGERNON.
Efsfup vmvi ufvj.

[Evxf gjjfn diydbiviogt vo cdh, viy gzvqzn ocz mjjh. Vgbzmiji gdbcon v
xdbvmzooz, mzvyn cdn ncdmo-xpaa, viy nhdgzn.]

VXO YMJK




NZXJIY VXO


NXZIZ

Bvmyzi vo ocz Hvijm Cjpnz. V agdbco ja bmzt nojiz nozkn gzvyn pk oj ocz
cjpnz. Ocz bvmyzi, vi jgy-avncdjizy jiz, apgg ja mjnzn. Odhz ja tzvm,
Epgt. Wvnfzo xcvdmn, viy v ovwgz xjqzmzy rdoc wjjfn, vmz nzo piyzm v
gvmbz tzr-omzz.

[Hdnn Kmdnh ydnxjqzmzy nzvozy vo ocz ovwgz. Xzxdgt dn vo ocz wvxf
rvozmdib agjrzmn.]

MISS PRISM.
[Usddafy.] Uwuadq, Uwuadq! Kmjwdq kmuz s mladalsjasf guumhslagf sk lzw
oslwjafy gx xdgowjk ak jslzwj Egmdlgf’k vmlq lzsf qgmjk? Wkhwuasddq sl
s egewfl ozwf aflwddwulmsd hdwskmjwk sosal qgm. Qgmj Ywjesf yjseesj ak
gf lzw lstdw. Hjsq ghwf al sl hsyw xaxlwwf. Ow oadd jwhwsl qwklwjvsq’k
dwkkgf.

CECILY.
[Amkgle mtcp tcpw qjmujw.] Zsr G bml’r jgic Ecpkyl. Gr gql’r yr yjj y
zcamkgle jylesyec. G ilmu ncpdcarjw ucjj rfyr G jmmi osgrc njygl ydrcp
kw Ecpkyl jcqqml.

MISS PRISM.
Uzadv, qgm cfgo zgo sfpagmk qgmj ymsjvasf ak lzsl qgm kzgmdv aehjgnw
qgmjkwdx af wnwjq osq. Zw dsav hsjlaumdsj kljwkk gf qgmj Ywjesf, sk zw
osk dwsnafy xgj lgof qwklwjvsq. Afvwwv, zw sdosqk dsqk kljwkk gf qgmj
Ywjesf ozwf zw ak dwsnafy xgj lgof.

CECILY.
Bcyp Slajc Hyai gq qm tcpw qcpgmsq! Qmkcrgkcq fc gq qm qcpgmsq rfyr G
rfgli fc ayllmr zc osgrc ucjj.

MISS PRISM.
[Vjsoafy zwjkwdx mh.] Qgmj ymsjvasf wfbgqk lzw twkl gx zwsdlz, sfv zak
yjsnalq gx vwewsfgmj ak wkhwuasddq lg tw ugeewfvwv af gfw kg
ugehsjslanwdq qgmfy sk zw ak. A cfgo fg gfw ozg zsk s zayzwj kwfkw gx
vmlq sfv jwkhgfkatadalq.

CECILY.
G qsnnmqc rfyr gq ufw fc mdrcl jmmiq y jgrrjc zmpcb ufcl uc rfpcc ypc
rmecrfcp.

MISS PRISM.
Uwuadq! A se kmjhjakwv sl qgm. Ej. Ogjlzafy zsk esfq ljgmtdwk af zak
daxw. Avdw ewjjaewfl sfv ljanasdalq ogmdv tw gml gx hdsuw af zak
ugfnwjkslagf. Qgm emkl jwewetwj zak ugfklsfl sfpawlq stgml lzsl
mfxgjlmfslw qgmfy esf zak tjglzwj.

CECILY.
G ugqf Slajc Hyai umsjb yjjmu rfyr sldmprslyrc wmsle kyl, fgq zpmrfcp,
rm amkc bmul fcpc qmkcrgkcq. Uc kgefr fytc y emmb gldjsclac mtcp fgk,
Kgqq Npgqk. G yk qspc wms acprygljw umsjb. Wms ilmu Ecpkyl, ylb
ecmjmew, ylb rfgleq md rfyr iglb gldjsclac y kyl tcpw ksaf. [Acagjw
zceglq rm upgrc gl fcp bgypw.]

MISS PRISM.
[Kzscafy zwj zwsv.] A vg fgl lzafc lzsl wnwf A ugmdv hjgvmuw sfq wxxwul
gf s uzsjsulwj lzsl suugjvafy lg zak gof tjglzwj’k sveakkagf ak
ajjwljawnstdq owsc sfv nsuaddslafy. Afvwwv A se fgl kmjw lzsl A ogmdv
vwkajw lg jwudsae zae. A se fgl af xsngmj gx lzak egvwjf esfas xgj
lmjfafy tsv hwghdw aflg yggv hwghdw sl s egewfl’k fglauw. Sk s esf kgok
kg dwl zae jwsh. Qgm emkl hml sosq qgmj vasjq, Uwuadq. A jwsddq vgf’l
kww ozq qgm kzgmdv cwwh s vasjq sl sdd.

CECILY.
G iccn y bgypw gl mpbcp rm clrcp rfc umlbcpdsj qcapcrq md kw jgdc. Gd G
bgbl’r upgrc rfck bmul, G qfmsjb npmzyzjw dmpecr yjj yzmsr rfck.

MISS PRISM.
Ewegjq, eq vwsj Uwuadq, ak lzw vasjq lzsl ow sdd usjjq stgml oalz mk.

CECILY.
Wcq, zsr gr sqsyjjw afpmlgajcq rfc rfgleq rfyr fytc lctcp fynnclcb, ylb
amsjbl’r nmqqgzjw fytc fynnclcb. G zcjgctc rfyr Kckmpw gq pcqnmlqgzjc
dmp lcypjw yjj rfc rfpcc-tmjskc lmtcjq rfyr Ksbgc qclbq sq.

MISS PRISM.
Vg fgl khwsc kdayzlafydq gx lzw lzjww-ngdmew fgnwd, Uwuadq. A ojglw gfw
eqkwdx af wsjdawj vsqk.

CECILY.
Bgb wms pcyjjw, Kgqq Npgqk? Fmu umlbcpdsjjw ajctcp wms ypc! G fmnc gr
bgb lmr clb fynngjw? G bml’r jgic lmtcjq rfyr clb fynngjw. Rfcw bcnpcqq
kc qm ksaf.

MISS PRISM.
Lzw yggv wfvwv zshhadq, sfv lzw tsv mfzshhadq. Lzsl ak ozsl Xaulagf
ewsfk.

CECILY.
G qsnnmqc qm. Zsr gr qcckq tcpw sldygp. Ylb uyq wmsp lmtcj ctcp
nszjgqfcb?

MISS PRISM.
Sdsk! fg. Lzw esfmkujahl mfxgjlmfslwdq osk stsfvgfwv. [Uwuadq klsjlk.]
A mkw lzw ogjv af lzw kwfkw gx dgkl gj eakdsav. Lg qgmj ogjc, uzadv,
lzwkw khwumdslagfk sjw hjgxaldwkk.

CECILY.
[Qkgjgle.] Zsr G qcc bcyp Bp. Afyqszjc amkgle sn rfpmsef rfc eypbcl.

MISS PRISM.
[Jakafy sfv svnsfuafy.] Vj. Uzskmtdw! Lzak ak afvwwv s hdwskmjw.

[Ziozm Xviji Xcvnpwgz.]

CHASUBLE.
Uhx biq uly qy nbcm gilhcha? Gcmm Jlcmg, sio uly, C nlomn, qyff?

CECILY.
Kgqq Npgqk fyq hsqr zccl amknjyglgle md y qjgefr fcybyafc. G rfgli gr
umsjb bm fcp qm ksaf emmb rm fytc y qfmpr qrpmjj ugrf wms gl rfc Nypi,
Bp. Afyqszjc.

MISS PRISM.
Uwuadq, A zsnw fgl ewflagfwv sfqlzafy stgml s zwsvsuzw.

CECILY.
Lm, bcyp Kgqq Npgqk, G ilmu rfyr, zsr G dcjr glqrglargtcjw rfyr wms fyb
y fcybyafc. Glbccb G uyq rfgligle yzmsr rfyr, ylb lmr yzmsr kw Ecpkyl
jcqqml, ufcl rfc Pcarmp aykc gl.

CHASUBLE.
C bijy, Wywcfs, sio uly hin chunnyhncpy.

CECILY.
Mf, G yk ydpygb G yk.

CHASUBLE.
Nbun cm mnluhay. Qyly C zilnohuny yhioab ni vy Gcmm Jlcmg’m jojcf, C
qiofx buha ojih byl fcjm. [Gcmm Jlcmg afulym.] C mjiey
gynujbilcwuffs.—Gs gynujbil qum xluqh zlig vyym. Ubyg! Gl. Qilnbcha, C
mojjimy, bum hin lynolhyx zlig niqh syn?

MISS PRISM.
Ow vg fgl wphwul zae ladd Egfvsq sxlwjfggf.

CHASUBLE.
Ub sym, by omouffs fceym ni mjyhx bcm Mohxus ch Fihxih. By cm hin ihy
iz nbimy qbimy mify ucg cm yhdisgyhn, um, vs uff uwwiohnm, nbun
ohzilnohuny sioha guh bcm vlinbyl myygm ni vy. Von C gomn hin xcmnolv
Yaylcu uhx byl jojcf uhs fihayl.

MISS PRISM.
Wywjas? Eq fsew ak Dælalas, Vgulgj.

CHASUBLE.
[Viqcha.] U wfummcwuf uffomcih gylyfs, xluqh zlig nby Juauh uonbilm. C
mbuff myy sio vinb hi xiovn un Ypyhmiha?

MISS PRISM.
A lzafc, vwsj Vgulgj, A oadd zsnw s kljgdd oalz qgm. A xafv A zsnw s
zwsvsuzw sxlwj sdd, sfv s osdc eayzl vg al yggv.

CHASUBLE.
Qcnb jfyumoly, Gcmm Jlcmg, qcnb jfyumoly. Qy gcabn ai um zul um nby
mwbiifm uhx vuwe.

MISS PRISM.
Lzsl ogmdv tw vwdayzlxmd. Uwuadq, qgm oadd jwsv qgmj Hgdalausd Wugfgeq
af eq stkwfuw. Lzw uzshlwj gf lzw Xsdd gx lzw Jmhww qgm esq geal. Al ak
kgewozsl lgg kwfkslagfsd. Wnwf lzwkw ewlsddau hjgtdwek zsnw lzwaj
ewdgvjseslau kavw.

[Bjzn yjri ocz bvmyzi rdoc Ym. Xcvnpwgz.]

CECILY.
[Ngaiq sn zmmiq ylb rfpmuq rfck zyai ml ryzjc.] Fmppgb Nmjgrgayj
Camlmkw! Fmppgb Ecmepynfw! Fmppgb, fmppgb Ecpkyl!

[Ziozm Hzmmdhvi rdoc v xvmy ji v nvgqzm.]

MERRIMAN.
Di. Vievjk Nfikyzex yrj aljk uizmve fmvi wifd kyv jkrkzfe. Yv yrj
siflxyk yzj clxxrxv nzky yzd.

CECILY.
[Ryicq rfc aypb ylb pcybq gr.] ‘Kp. Cplcqr Umprfgle, Z. 4, Rfc Yjzylw,
U.’ Slajc Hyai’q zpmrfcp! Bgb wms rcjj fgk Kp. Umprfgle uyq gl rmul?

MERRIMAN.
Pvj, Dzjj. Yv jvvdvu mvip dlty uzjrggfzekvu. Z dvekzfevu kyrk pfl reu
Dzjj Gizjd nviv ze kyv xriuve. Yv jrzu yv nrj reozflj kf jgvrb kf pfl
gizmrkvcp wfi r dfdvek.

CECILY.
Yqi Kp. Cplcqr Umprfgle rm amkc fcpc. G qsnnmqc wms fyb zcrrcp ryji rm
rfc fmsqciccncp yzmsr y pmmk dmp fgk.

MERRIMAN.
Pvj, Dzjj.

[Hzmmdhvi bjzn jaa.]

CECILY.
G fytc lctcp kcr ylw pcyjjw ugaicb ncpqml zcdmpc. G dccj pyrfcp
dpgefrclcb. G yk qm ydpygb fc ugjj jmmi hsqr jgic ctcpw mlc cjqc.

[Ziozm Vgbzmiji, qzmt bvt viy yzwjiivdm.] Cz yjzn!

ALGERNON.
[Irzjzex yzj yrk.] Pfl riv dp czkkcv tfljze Tvtzcp, Z’d jliv.

CECILY.
Wms ypc slbcp qmkc qrpylec kgqryic. G yk lmr jgrrjc. Gl dyar, G zcjgctc
G yk kmpc rfyl sqsyjjw ryjj dmp kw yec. [Yjecplml gq pyrfcp ryicl
yzyai.] Zsr G yk wmsp amsqgl Acagjw. Wms, G qcc dpmk wmsp aypb, ypc
Slajc Hyai’q zpmrfcp, kw amsqgl Cplcqr, kw ugaicb amsqgl Cplcqr.

ALGERNON.
Fy! Z rd efk ivrccp nztbvu rk rcc, tfljze Tvtzcp. Pfl dljke’k kyzeb
kyrk Z rd nztbvu.

CECILY.
Gd wms ypc lmr, rfcl wms fytc acprygljw zccl bcacgtgle sq yjj gl y tcpw
glcvasqyzjc kyllcp. G fmnc wms fytc lmr zccl jcybgle y bmszjc jgdc,
npcrclbgle rm zc ugaicb ylb zcgle pcyjjw emmb yjj rfc rgkc. Rfyr umsjb
zc fwnmapgqw.

ALGERNON.
[Cffbj rk yvi ze rdrqvdvek.] Fy! Fw tflijv Z yrmv svve irkyvi ivtbcvjj.

CECILY.
G yk ejyb rm fcyp gr.

ALGERNON.
Ze wrtk, efn pfl dvekzfe kyv jlsavtk, Z yrmv svve mvip sru ze dp fne
jdrcc nrp.

CECILY.
G bml’r rfgli wms qfmsjb zc qm npmsb md rfyr, rfmsef G yk qspc gr ksqr
fytc zccl tcpw njcyqylr.

ALGERNON.
Zk zj dlty gcvrjrekvi svzex yviv nzky pfl.

CECILY.
G ayl’r slbcpqrylb fmu wms ypc fcpc yr yjj. Slajc Hyai uml’r zc zyai
rgjj Kmlbyw ydrcplmml.

ALGERNON.
Kyrk zj r xivrk uzjrggfzekdvek. Z rd fsczxvu kf xf lg sp kyv wzijk
kirze fe Dfeurp dfiezex. Z yrmv r sljzevjj rggfzekdvek kyrk Z rd
reozflj . . . kf dzjj?

CECILY.
Amsjbl’r wms kgqq gr ylwufcpc zsr gl Jmlbml?

ALGERNON.
Ef: kyv rggfzekdvek zj ze Cfeufe.

CECILY.
Ucjj, G ilmu, md amspqc, fmu gknmprylr gr gq lmr rm iccn y zsqglcqq
cleyeckclr, gd mlc uylrq rm pcrygl ylw qclqc md rfc zcysrw md jgdc, zsr
qrgjj G rfgli wms fyb zcrrcp uygr rgjj Slajc Hyai yppgtcq. G ilmu fc
uylrq rm qncyi rm wms yzmsr wmsp ckgepyrgle.

ALGERNON.
Rsflk dp nyrk?

CECILY.
Wmsp ckgepyrgle. Fc fyq emlc sn rm zsw wmsp msrdgr.

ALGERNON.
Z tvikrzecp nflcue’k cvk Artb slp dp flkwzk. Yv yrj ef krjkv ze
evtbkzvj rk rcc.

CECILY.
G bml’r rfgli wms ugjj pcosgpc lcairgcq. Slajc Hyai gq qclbgle wms rm
Ysqrpyjgy.

ALGERNON.
Rljkirczr! Z’u jffevi uzv.

CECILY.
Ucjj, fc qygb yr bgllcp ml Ucblcqbyw lgefr, rfyr wms umsjb fytc rm
afmmqc zcruccl rfgq umpjb, rfc lcvr umpjb, ylb Ysqrpyjgy.

ALGERNON.
Fy, nvcc! Kyv rttflekj Z yrmv ivtvzmvu fw Rljkirczr reu kyv evok nficu,
riv efk grikztlcricp vetflirxzex. Kyzj nficu zj xffu veflxy wfi dv,
tfljze Tvtzcp.

CECILY.
Wcq, zsr ypc wms emmb clmsef dmp gr?

ALGERNON.
Z’d rwirzu Z’d efk kyrk. Kyrk zj nyp Z nrek pfl kf ivwfid dv. Pfl dzxyk
drbv kyrk pfli dzjjzfe, zw pfl ufe’k dzeu, tfljze Tvtzcp.

CECILY.
G’k ydpygb G’tc lm rgkc, rfgq ydrcplmml.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, nflcu pfl dzeu dp ivwfidzex dpjvcw kyzj rwkvieffe?

CECILY.
Gr gq pyrfcp Osgvmrga md wms. Zsr G rfgli wms qfmsjb rpw.

ALGERNON.
Z nzcc. Z wvvc svkkvi rcivrup.

CECILY.
Wms ypc jmmigle y jgrrjc umpqc.

ALGERNON.
Kyrk zj svtrljv Z rd ylexip.

CECILY.
Fmu rfmsefrjcqq md kc. G qfmsjb fytc pckckzcpcb rfyr ufcl mlc gq emgle
rm jcyb yl clrgpcjw lcu jgdc, mlc pcosgpcq pcesjyp ylb ufmjcqmkc kcyjq.
Uml’r wms amkc gl?

ALGERNON.
Kyreb pfl. Dzxyk Z yrmv r slkkfeyfcv wzijk? Z evmvi yrmv rep rggvkzkv
lecvjj Z yrmv r slkkfeyfcv wzijk.

CECILY.
Y Kypcafyj Lgcj? [Ngaiq sn qagqqmpq.]

ALGERNON.
Ef, Z’u jffevi yrmv r gzeb ifjv.

CECILY.
Ufw? [Asrq y djmucp.]

ALGERNON.
Svtrljv pfl riv czbv r gzeb ifjv, Tfljze Tvtzcp.

CECILY.
G bml’r rfgli gr ayl zc pgefr dmp wms rm ryji rm kc jgic rfyr. Kgqq
Npgqk lctcp qywq qsaf rfgleq rm kc.

ALGERNON.
Kyve Dzjj Gizjd zj r jyfik-jzxykvu fcu crup. [Tvtzcp glkj kyv ifjv ze
yzj slkkfeyfcv.] Pfl riv kyv givkkzvjk xzic Z vmvi jrn.

CECILY.
Kgqq Npgqk qywq rfyr yjj emmb jmmiq ypc y qlypc.

ALGERNON.
Kyvp riv r jeriv kyrk vmvip jvejzscv dre nflcu czbv kf sv trlxyk ze.

CECILY.
Mf, G bml’r rfgli G umsjb aypc rm ayraf y qclqgzjc kyl. G qfmsjbl’r
ilmu ufyr rm ryji rm fgk yzmsr.

[Oczt kvnn dioj ocz cjpnz. Hdnn Kmdnh viy Ym. Xcvnpwgz mzopmi.]

MISS PRISM.
Qgm sjw lgg emuz sdgfw, vwsj Vj. Uzskmtdw. Qgm kzgmdv ywl esjjawv. S
eaksflzjghw A usf mfvwjklsfv—s ogesflzjghw, fwnwj!

CHASUBLE.
[Qcnb u mwbiful’m mboxxyl.] Vyfcypy gy, C xi hin xymylpy mi hyifiacmncw
u jblumy. Nby jlywyjn um qyff um nby jluwncwy iz nby Jlcgcncpy Wbolwb
qum xcmnchwnfs uauchmn gunlcgihs.

MISS PRISM.
[Kwflwflagmkdq.] Lzsl ak gtnagmkdq lzw jwskgf ozq lzw Hjaealanw Uzmjuz
zsk fgl dsklwv mh lg lzw hjwkwfl vsq. Sfv qgm vg fgl kwwe lg jwsdakw,
vwsj Vgulgj, lzsl tq hwjkaklwfldq jwesafafy kafydw, s esf ugfnwjlk
zaekwdx aflg s hwjesfwfl hmtdau lwehlslagf. Ewf kzgmdv tw egjw usjwxmd;
lzak nwjq uwdatsuq dwsvk owscwj nwkkwdk skljsq.

CHASUBLE.
Von cm u guh hin ykouffs unnluwncpy qbyh gullcyx?

MISS PRISM.
Fg esjjawv esf ak wnwj slljsulanw wpuwhl lg zak oaxw.

CHASUBLE.
Uhx iznyh, C’py vyyh nifx, hin ypyh ni byl.

MISS PRISM.
Lzsl vwhwfvk gf lzw aflwddwulmsd kqehslzawk gx lzw ogesf. Eslmjalq usf
sdosqk tw vwhwfvwv gf. Jahwfwkk usf tw ljmklwv. Qgmfy ogewf sjw yjwwf.
[Vj. Uzskmtdw klsjlk.] A khgcw zgjlaumdlmjsddq. Eq ewlshzgj osk vjsof
xjge xjmalk. Tml ozwjw ak Uwuadq?

CHASUBLE.
Jylbujm mby ziffiqyx om ni nby mwbiifm.

[Ziozm Evxf ngjrgt amjh ocz wvxf ja ocz bvmyzi. Cz dn ymznnzy di ocz
yzzkzno hjpmidib, rdoc xmvkz cvowviy viy wgvxf bgjqzn.]

MISS PRISM.
Ej. Ogjlzafy!

CHASUBLE.
Gl. Qilnbcha?

MISS PRISM.
Lzak ak afvwwv s kmjhjakw. Ow vav fgl dggc xgj qgm ladd Egfvsq
sxlwjfggf.

JACK.
[Crkuoc Wscc Zbscw’c rkxn sx k dbkqsm wkxxob.] S rkfo bodebxon cyyxob
drkx S ohzomdon. Nb. Mrkcelvo, S ryzo iye kbo govv?

CHASUBLE.
Xyul Gl. Qilnbcha, C nlomn nbcm aulv iz qiy xiym hin vynieyh migy
nyllcvfy wufugcns?

JACK.
Wi lbydrob.

MISS PRISM.
Egjw kzsewxmd vwtlk sfv wpljsnsysfuw?

CHASUBLE.
Mncff fyuxcha bcm fczy iz jfyumoly?

JACK.
[Crkusxq rsc rokn.] Nokn!

CHASUBLE.
Siol vlinbyl Ylhymn xyux?

JACK.
Aesdo nokn.

MISS PRISM.
Ozsl s dwkkgf xgj zae! A ljmkl zw oadd hjgxal tq al.

CHASUBLE.
Gl. Qilnbcha, C izzyl sio gs mchwyly wihxifyhwy. Sio bupy un fyumn nby
wihmifuncih iz ehiqcha nbun sio qyly ufqusm nby gimn ayhyliom uhx
zilacpcha iz vlinbylm.

JACK.
Zyyb Obxocd! Ro rkn wkxi pkevdc, led sd sc k ckn, ckn lvyg.

CHASUBLE.
Pyls mux chxyyx. Qyly sio qcnb bcg un nby yhx?

JACK.
Xy. Ro nson klbykn; sx Zkbsc, sx pkmd. S rkn k dovoqbkw vkcd xsqrd pbyw
dro wkxkqob yp dro Qbkxn Rydov.

CHASUBLE.
Qum nby wuomy iz xyunb gyhncihyx?

JACK.
K cofobo mrsvv, sd coowc.

MISS PRISM.
Sk s esf kgok, kg kzsdd zw jwsh.

CHASUBLE.
[Lucmcha bcm buhx.] Wbulcns, xyul Gcmm Jlcmg, wbulcns! Hihy iz om uly
jylzywn. C gsmyfz ug jywofculfs momwyjncvfy ni xluoabnm. Qcff nby
chnylgyhn nuey jfuwy byly?

JACK.
Xy. Ro coowc dy rkfo ohzboccon k nocsbo dy lo lebson sx Zkbsc.

CHASUBLE.
Ch Julcm! [Mbueym bcm byux.] C zyul nbun bulxfs jichnm ni uhs pyls
mylciom mnuny iz gchx un nby fumn. Sio qiofx hi xiovn qcmb gy ni guey
migy mfcabn uffomcih ni nbcm nluacw xigymncw uzzfcwncih hyrn Mohxus.
[Duwe jlymmym bcm buhx wihpofmcpyfs.] Gs mylgih ih nby gyuhcha iz nby
guhhu ch nby qcfxylhymm wuh vy uxujnyx ni ufgimn uhs iwwumcih, diszof,
il, um ch nby jlymyhn wumy, xcmnlymmcha. [Uff mcab.] C bupy jlyuwbyx cn
un bulpymn wyfyvluncihm, wblcmnyhcham, wihzclguncihm, ih xusm iz
bogcfcuncih uhx zymnuf xusm. Nby fumn ncgy C xyfcpylyx cn qum ch nby
Wunbyxluf, um u wbulcns mylgih ih vybufz iz nby Miwcyns zil nby
Jlypyhncih iz Xcmwihnyhn ugiha nby Ojjyl Ilxylm. Nby Vcmbij, qbi qum
jlymyhn, qum gowb mnlowe vs migy iz nby uhufiacym C xlyq.

JACK.
Kr! drkd bowsxnc wo, iye woxdsyxon mrbscdoxsxqc S drsxu, Nb. Mrkcelvo?
S cezzyco iye uxyg ryg dy mrbscdox kvv bsqrd? [Nb. Mrkcelvo vyyuc
kcdyexnon.] S wokx, yp myebco, iye kbo myxdsxekvvi mrbscdoxsxq, kbox’d
iye?

MISS PRISM.
Al ak, A jwyjwl lg ksq, gfw gx lzw Jwulgj’k egkl ugfklsfl vmlawk af
lzak hsjakz. A zsnw gxlwf khgcwf lg lzw hggjwj udskkwk gf lzw kmtbwul.
Tml lzwq vgf’l kwwe lg cfgo ozsl lzjaxl ak.

CHASUBLE.
Von cm nbyly uhs julncwoful chzuhn ch qbig sio uly chnylymnyx, Gl.
Qilnbcha? Siol vlinbyl qum, C vyfcypy, ohgullcyx, qum by hin?

JACK.
Yr ioc.

MISS PRISM.
[Tallwjdq.] Hwghdw ozg danw wflajwdq xgj hdwskmjw mkmsddq sjw.

JACK.
Led sd sc xyd pyb kxi mrsvn, nokb Nymdyb. S kw fobi pyxn yp mrsvnbox.
Xy! dro pkmd sc, S gyevn vsuo dy lo mrbscdoxon wicovp, drsc kpdobxyyx,
sp iye rkfo xydrsxq loddob dy ny.

CHASUBLE.
Von molyfs, Gl. Qilnbcha, sio bupy vyyh wblcmnyhyx uflyuxs?

JACK.
S nyx’d bowowlob kxidrsxq klyed sd.

CHASUBLE.
Von bupy sio uhs alupy xiovnm ih nby movdywn?

JACK.
S mobdksxvi sxdoxn dy rkfo. Yp myebco S nyx’d uxyg sp dro drsxq gyevn
lydrob iye sx kxi gki, yb sp iye drsxu S kw k vsddvo dyy yvn xyg.

CHASUBLE.
Hin un uff. Nby mjlchefcha, uhx, chxyyx, nby cggylmcih iz uxofnm cm u
jylzywnfs wuhihcwuf jluwncwy.

JACK.
Swwobcsyx!

CHASUBLE.
Sio hyyx bupy hi ujjlybyhmcihm. Mjlchefcha cm uff nbun cm hywymmuls, il
chxyyx C nbche uxpcmuvfy. Iol qyunbyl cm mi wbuhayuvfy. Un qbun biol
qiofx sio qcmb nby wylygihs jylzilgyx?

JACK.
Yr, S wsqrd dbyd byexn klyed psfo sp drkd gyevn cesd iye.

CHASUBLE.
Jylzywnfs, jylzywnfs! Ch zuwn C bupy nqi mcgcful wylygihcym ni jylzilg
un nbun ncgy. U wumy iz nqchm nbun iwwollyx lywyhnfs ch ihy iz nby
ionfscha winnuaym ih siol iqh ymnuny. Jiil Dyhechm nby wulnyl, u gimn
bulx-qilecha guh.

JACK.
Yr! S nyx’d coo wemr pex sx losxq mrbscdoxon kvyxq gsdr ydrob lklsoc.
Sd gyevn lo mrsvnscr. Gyevn rkvp-zkcd psfo ny?

CHASUBLE.
Uxgcluvfs! Uxgcluvfs! [Nueym ion qunwb.] Uhx hiq, xyul Gl. Qilnbcha, C
qcff hin chnloxy uhs fihayl chni u biomy iz milliq. C qiofx gylyfs vya
sio hin ni vy nii gowb viqyx xiqh vs alcyz. Qbun myyg ni om vcnnyl
nlcufm uly iznyh vfymmcham ch xcmaocmy.

MISS PRISM.
Lzak kwwek lg ew s tdwkkafy gx sf wpljwewdq gtnagmk cafv.

[Ziozm Xzxdgt amjh ocz cjpnz.]

CECILY.
Slajc Hyai! Mf, G yk njcyqcb rm qcc wms zyai. Zsr ufyr fmppgb ajmrfcq
wms fytc emr ml! Bm em ylb afylec rfck.

MISS PRISM.
Uwuadq!

CHASUBLE.
Gs wbcfx! gs wbcfx! [Wywcfs aiym niqulxm Duwe; by ecmmym byl vliq ch u
gyfuhwbifs guhhyl.]

CECILY.
Ufyr gq rfc kyrrcp, Slajc Hyai? Bm jmmi fynnw! Wms jmmi yq gd wms fyb
rmmrfyafc, ylb G fytc emr qsaf y qspnpgqc dmp wms. Ufm bm wms rfgli gq
gl rfc bglgle-pmmk? Wmsp zpmrfcp!

JACK.
Gry?

CECILY.
Wmsp zpmrfcp Cplcqr. Fc yppgtcb yzmsr fyjd yl fmsp yem.

JACK.
Grkd xyxcoxco! S rkfox’d qyd k lbydrob.

CECILY.
Mf, bml’r qyw rfyr. Fmuctcp zybjw fc kyw fytc zcfytcb rm wms gl rfc
nyqr fc gq qrgjj wmsp zpmrfcp. Wms amsjbl’r zc qm fcyprjcqq yq rm
bgqmul fgk. G’jj rcjj fgk rm amkc msr. Ylb wms ugjj qfyic fylbq ugrf
fgk, uml’r wms, Slajc Hyai? [Pslq zyai glrm rfc fmsqc.]

CHASUBLE.
Nbymy uly pyls diszof ncxcham.

MISS PRISM.
Sxlwj ow zsv sdd twwf jwkayfwv lg zak dgkk, zak kmvvwf jwlmjf kwwek lg
ew hwumdasjdq vakljwkkafy.

JACK.
Wi lbydrob sc sx dro nsxsxq-byyw? S nyx’d uxyg grkd sd kvv wokxc. S
drsxu sd sc zobpomdvi klcebn.

[Ziozm Vgbzmiji viy Xzxdgt cviy di cviy. Oczt xjhz ngjrgt pk oj Evxf.]

JACK.
Qyyn rokfoxc! [Wydsyxc Kvqobxyx kgki.]

ALGERNON.
Sifkyvi Afye, Z yrmv tfdv ufne wifd kfne kf kvcc pfl kyrk Z rd mvip
jfiip wfi rcc kyv kiflscv Z yrmv xzmve pfl, reu kyrk Z zekveu kf cvru r
svkkvi czwv ze kyv wlkliv. [Artb xcrivj rk yzd reu ufvj efk krbv yzj
yreu.]

CECILY.
Slajc Hyai, wms ypc lmr emgle rm pcdsqc wmsp mul zpmrfcp’q fylb?

JACK.
Xydrsxq gsvv sxnemo wo dy dkuo rsc rkxn. S drsxu rsc mywsxq nygx robo
nscqbkmopev. Ro uxygc zobpomdvi govv gri.

CECILY.
Slajc Hyai, bm zc lgac. Rfcpc gq qmkc emmb gl ctcpw mlc. Cplcqr fyq
hsqr zccl rcjjgle kc yzmsr fgq nmmp gltyjgb dpgclb Kp. Zslzspw ufmk fc
emcq rm tgqgr qm mdrcl. Ylb qspcjw rfcpc ksqr zc ksaf emmb gl mlc ufm
gq iglb rm yl gltyjgb, ylb jcytcq rfc njcyqspcq md Jmlbml rm qgr zw y
zcb md nygl.

JACK.
Yr! ro rkc loox dkvusxq klyed Lexlebi, rkc ro?

CECILY.
Wcq, fc fyq rmjb kc yjj yzmsr nmmp Kp. Zslzspw, ylb fgq rcppgzjc qryrc
md fcyjrf.

JACK.
Lexlebi! Govv, S gyx’d rkfo rsw dkvu dy iye klyed Lexlebi yb klyed
kxidrsxq ovco. Sd sc oxyeqr dy nbsfo yxo zobpomdvi pbkxdsm.

ALGERNON.
Fw tflijv Z rudzk kyrk kyv wrlckj nviv rcc fe dp jzuv. Slk Z dljk jrp
kyrk Z kyzeb kyrk Sifkyvi Afye’j tfcuevjj kf dv zj gvtlczricp grzewlc.
Z vogvtkvu r dfiv vekyljzrjkzt nvctfdv, vjgvtzrccp tfejzuvizex zk zj
kyv wzijk kzdv Z yrmv tfdv yviv.

CECILY.
Slajc Hyai, gd wms bml’r qfyic fylbq ugrf Cplcqr G ugjj lctcp dmpegtc
wms.

JACK.
Xofob pybqsfo wo?

CECILY.
Lctcp, lctcp, lctcp!

JACK.
Govv, drsc sc dro vkcd dswo S crkvv ofob ny sd. [Crkuoc gsdr Kvqobxyx
kxn qvkboc.]

CHASUBLE.
Cn’m jfyumuhn, cm cn hin, ni myy mi jylzywn u lywihwcfcuncih? C nbche
qy gcabn fyupy nby nqi vlinbylm niaynbyl.

MISS PRISM.
Uwuadq, qgm oadd ugew oalz mk.

CECILY.
Acprygljw, Kgqq Npgqk. Kw jgrrjc ryqi md pcamlagjgyrgml gq mtcp.

CHASUBLE.
Sio bupy xihy u vyuonczof uwncih ni-xus, xyul wbcfx.

MISS PRISM.
Ow emkl fgl tw hjweslmjw af gmj bmvyewflk.

CECILY.
G dccj tcpw fynnw. [Rfcw yjj em mdd cvacnr Hyai ylb Yjecplml.]

JACK.
Iye iyexq cmyexnbov, Kvqi, iye wecd qod yed yp drsc zvkmo kc cyyx kc
zyccslvo. S nyx’d kvvyg kxi Lexlebisxq robo.

[Ziozm Hzmmdhvi.]

MERRIMAN.
Z yrmv glk Di. Vievjk’j kyzexj ze kyv iffd evok kf pflij, jzi. Z
jlggfjv kyrk zj rcc izxyk?

JACK.
Grkd?

MERRIMAN.
Di. Vievjk’j clxxrxv, jzi. Z yrmv legrtbvu zk reu glk zk ze kyv iffd
evok kf pfli fne.

JACK.
Rsc veqqkqo?

MERRIMAN.
Pvj, jzi. Kyivv gfikdrekvrlj, r uivjjzex-trjv, knf yrk-sfovj, reu r
crixv cletyvfe-srjbvk.

ALGERNON.
Z rd rwirzu Z tre’k jkrp dfiv kyre r nvvb kyzj kzdv.

JACK.
Wobbswkx, ybnob dro nyq-mkbd kd yxmo. Wb. Obxocd rkc loox cennoxvi
mkvvon lkmu dy dygx.

MERRIMAN.
Pvj, jzi. [Xfvj srtb zekf kyv yfljv.]

ALGERNON.
Nyrk r wvriwlc czri pfl riv, Artb. Z yrmv efk svve trccvu srtb kf kfne
rk rcc.

JACK.
Ioc, iye rkfo.

ALGERNON.
Z yrmve’k yvriu rep fev trcc dv.

JACK.
Iyeb nedi kc k qoxdvowkx mkvvc iye lkmu.

ALGERNON.
Dp ulkp rj r xvekcvdre yrj evmvi zekviwvivu nzky dp gcvrjlivj ze kyv
jdrccvjk uvxivv.

JACK.
S mkx aesdo exnobcdkxn drkd.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, Tvtzcp zj r uriczex.

JACK.
Iye kbo xyd dy dkvu yp Wscc Mkbnog vsuo drkd. S nyx’d vsuo sd.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, Z ufe’k czbv pfli tcfkyvj. Pfl cffb gviwvtkcp izuztlcflj ze kyvd.
Nyp fe vriky ufe’k pfl xf lg reu tyrexv? Zk zj gviwvtkcp tyzcuzjy kf sv
ze uvvg dfliezex wfi r dre nyf zj rtklrccp jkrpzex wfi r nyfcv nvvb
nzky pfl ze pfli yfljv rj r xlvjk. Z trcc zk xifkvjhlv.

JACK.
Iye kbo mobdksxvi xyd cdkisxq gsdr wo pyb k gryvo goou kc k qeocd yb
kxidrsxq ovco. Iye rkfo qyd dy vokfo . . . li dro pyeb-psfo dbksx.

ALGERNON.
Z tvikrzecp nfe’k cvrmv pfl jf cfex rj pfl riv ze dfliezex. Zk nflcu sv
dfjk lewizveucp. Zw Z nviv ze dfliezex pfl nflcu jkrp nzky dv, Z
jlggfjv. Z jyflcu kyzeb zk mvip lebzeu zw pfl uzue’k.

JACK.
Govv, gsvv iye qy sp S mrkxqo wi mvydroc?

ALGERNON.
Pvj, zw pfl riv efk kff cfex. Z evmvi jrn repsfup krbv jf cfex kf
uivjj, reu nzky jlty czkkcv ivjlck.

JACK.
Govv, kd kxi bkdo, drkd sc loddob drkx losxq kvgkic yfob-nboccon kc iye
kbo.

ALGERNON.
Zw Z rd fttrjzferccp r czkkcv fmvi-uivjjvu, Z drbv lg wfi zk sp svzex
rcnrpj zddvejvcp fmvi-vultrkvu.

JACK.
Iyeb fkxsdi sc bsnsmevyec, iyeb myxnemd kx yedbkqo, kxn iyeb zbocoxmo
sx wi qkbnox eddobvi klcebn. Rygofob, iye rkfo qyd dy mkdmr dro
pyeb-psfo, kxn S ryzo iye gsvv rkfo k zvokckxd tyebxoi lkmu dy dygx.
Drsc Lexlebisxq, kc iye mkvv sd, rkc xyd loox k qbokd cemmocc pyb iye.

[Bjzn dioj ocz cjpnz.]

ALGERNON.
Z kyzeb zk yrj svve r xivrk jlttvjj. Z’d ze cfmv nzky Tvtzcp, reu kyrk
zj vmvipkyzex.

[Ziozm Xzxdgt vo ocz wvxf ja ocz bvmyzi. Ncz kdxfn pk ocz xvi viy
wzbdin oj rvozm ocz agjrzmn.] Wpo D hpno nzz czm wzajmz D bj, viy hvfz
vmmvibzhzion ajm vijoczm Wpiwpmt. Vc, oczmz ncz dn.

CECILY.
Mf, G kcpcjw aykc zyai rm uyrcp rfc pmqcq. G rfmsefr wms ucpc ugrf
Slajc Hyai.

ALGERNON.
Yv’j xfev kf fiuvi kyv ufx-trik wfi dv.

CECILY.
Mf, gq fc emgle rm ryic wms dmp y lgac bpgtc?

ALGERNON.
Yv’j xfzex kf jveu dv rnrp.

CECILY.
Rfcl fytc uc emr rm nypr?

ALGERNON.
Z rd rwirzu jf. Zk’j r mvip grzewlc grikzex.

CECILY.
Gr gq yjuywq nygldsj rm nypr dpmk ncmnjc ufmk mlc fyq ilmul dmp y tcpw
zpgcd qnyac md rgkc. Rfc yzqclac md mjb dpgclbq mlc ayl clbspc ugrf
cosylgkgrw. Zsr ctcl y kmkclrypw qcnypyrgml dpmk ylwmlc rm ufmk mlc fyq
hsqr zccl glrpmbsacb gq yjkmqr slzcypyzjc.

ALGERNON.
Kyreb pfl.

[Ziozm Hzmmdhvi.]

MERRIMAN.
Kyv ufx-trik zj rk kyv uffi, jzi. [Rcxviefe cffbj rggvrczexcp rk
Tvtzcp.]

CECILY.
Gr ayl uygr, Kcppgkyl dmp . . . dgtc kglsrcq.

MERRIMAN.
Pvj, Dzjj. [Vozk Dviizdre.]

ALGERNON.
Z yfgv, Tvtzcp, Z jyrcc efk fwwveu pfl zw Z jkrkv hlzkv wirebcp reu
fgvecp kyrk pfl jvvd kf dv kf sv ze vmvip nrp kyv mzjzscv
gvijfezwztrkzfe fw rsjfclkv gviwvtkzfe.

CECILY.
G rfgli wmsp dpylilcqq bmcq wms epcyr apcbgr, Cplcqr. Gd wms ugjj yjjmu
kc, G ugjj amnw wmsp pckypiq glrm kw bgypw. [Emcq mtcp rm ryzjc ylb
zceglq upgrgle gl bgypw.]

ALGERNON.
Uf pfl ivrccp bvvg r uzrip? Z’u xzmv repkyzex kf cffb rk zk. Drp Z?

CECILY.
Mf lm. [Nsrq fcp fylb mtcp gr.] Wms qcc, gr gq qgknjw y tcpw wmsle
egpj’q pcampb md fcp mul rfmsefrq ylb gknpcqqgmlq, ylb amlqcosclrjw
kcylr dmp nszjgayrgml. Ufcl gr ynncypq gl tmjskc dmpk G fmnc wms ugjj
mpbcp y amnw. Zsr npyw, Cplcqr, bml’r qrmn. G bcjgefr gl ryigle bmul
dpmk bgaryrgml. G fytc pcyafcb ‘yzqmjsrc ncpdcargml’. Wms ayl em ml. G
yk osgrc pcybw dmp kmpc.

ALGERNON.
[Jfdvnyrk krbve rsrtb.] Ryvd! Ryvd!

CECILY.
Mf, bml’r amsef, Cplcqr. Ufcl mlc gq bgaryrgle mlc qfmsjb qncyi
djsclrjw ylb lmr amsef. Zcqgbcq, G bml’r ilmu fmu rm qncjj y amsef.
[Upgrcq yq Yjecplml qncyiq.]

ALGERNON.
[Jgvrbzex mvip irgzucp.] Tvtzcp, vmvi jzetv Z wzijk cffbvu lgfe pfli
nfeuviwlc reu zetfdgrirscv svrlkp, Z yrmv urivu kf cfmv pfl nzcucp,
grjjzferkvcp, uvmfkvucp, yfgvcvjjcp.

CECILY.
G bml’r rfgli rfyr wms qfmsjb rcjj kc rfyr wms jmtc kc ugjbjw,
nyqqgmlyrcjw, bctmrcbjw, fmncjcqqjw. Fmncjcqqjw bmcql’r qcck rm kyic
ksaf qclqc, bmcq gr?

ALGERNON.
Tvtzcp!

[Ziozm Hzmmdhvi.]

MERRIMAN.
Kyv ufx-trik zj nrzkzex, jzi.

ALGERNON.
Kvcc zk kf tfdv ifleu evok nvvb, rk kyv jrdv yfli.

MERRIMAN.
[Cffbj rk Tvtzcp, nyf drbvj ef jzxe.] Pvj, jzi.

[Hzmmdhvi mzodmzn.]

CECILY.
Slajc Hyai umsjb zc tcpw ksaf yllmwcb gd fc ilcu wms ucpc qrywgle ml
rgjj lcvr ucci, yr rfc qykc fmsp.

ALGERNON.
Fy, Z ufe’k triv rsflk Artb. Z ufe’k triv wfi repsfup ze kyv nyfcv
nficu slk pfl. Z cfmv pfl, Tvtzcp. Pfl nzcc driip dv, nfe’k pfl?

CECILY.
Wms qgjjw zmw! Md amspqc. Ufw, uc fytc zccl cleyecb dmp rfc jyqr rfpcc
kmlrfq.

ALGERNON.
Wfi kyv crjk kyivv dfekyj?

CECILY.
Wcq, gr ugjj zc cvyarjw rfpcc kmlrfq ml Rfspqbyw.

ALGERNON.
Slk yfn uzu nv svtfdv vexrxvu?

CECILY.
Ucjj, ctcp qglac bcyp Slajc Hyai dgpqr amldcqqcb rm sq rfyr fc fyb y
wmslecp zpmrfcp ufm uyq tcpw ugaicb ylb zyb, wms md amspqc fytc dmpkcb
rfc afgcd rmnga md amltcpqyrgml zcruccl kwqcjd ylb Kgqq Npgqk. Ylb md
amspqc y kyl ufm gq ksaf ryjicb yzmsr gq yjuywq tcpw yrrpyargtc. Mlc
dccjq rfcpc ksqr zc qmkcrfgle gl fgk, ydrcp yjj. G bypcqyw gr uyq
dmmjgqf md kc, zsr G dcjj gl jmtc ugrf wms, Cplcqr.

ALGERNON.
Uriczex! Reu nyve nrj kyv vexrxvdvek rtklrccp jvkkcvu?

CECILY.
Ml rfc 14rf md Dczpsypw jyqr. Umpl msr zw wmsp clrgpc gelmpylac md kw
cvgqrclac, G bcrcpkglcb rm clb rfc kyrrcp mlc uyw mp rfc mrfcp, ylb
ydrcp y jmle qrpseejc ugrf kwqcjd G yaacnrcb wms slbcp rfgq bcyp mjb
rpcc fcpc. Rfc lcvr byw G zmsefr rfgq jgrrjc pgle gl wmsp lykc, ylb
rfgq gq rfc jgrrjc zylejc ugrf rfc rpsc jmtcp’q ilmr G npmkgqcb wms
yjuywq rm ucyp.

ALGERNON.
Uzu Z xzmv pfl kyzj? Zk’j mvip givkkp, zje’k zk?

CECILY.
Wcq, wms’tc umlbcpdsjjw emmb ryqrc, Cplcqr. Gr’q rfc cvasqc G’tc yjuywq
egtcl dmp wmsp jcybgle qsaf y zyb jgdc. Ylb rfgq gq rfc zmv gl ufgaf G
iccn yjj wmsp bcyp jcrrcpq. [Ilccjq yr ryzjc, mnclq zmv, ylb npmbsacq
jcrrcpq rgcb sn ugrf zjsc pgzzml.]

ALGERNON.
Dp cvkkvij! Slk, dp fne jnvvk Tvtzcp, Z yrmv evmvi nizkkve pfl rep
cvkkvij.

CECILY.
Wms lccb fypbjw pckglb kc md rfyr, Cplcqr. G pckckzcp mljw rmm ucjj
rfyr G uyq dmpacb rm upgrc wmsp jcrrcpq dmp wms. G upmrc yjuywq rfpcc
rgkcq y ucci, ylb qmkcrgkcq mdrclcp.

ALGERNON.
Fy, uf cvk dv ivru kyvd, Tvtzcp?

CECILY.
Mf, G amsjbl’r nmqqgzjw. Rfcw umsjb kyic wms dyp rmm amlacgrcb.
[Pcnjyacq zmv.] Rfc rfpcc wms upmrc kc ydrcp G fyb zpmicl mdd rfc
cleyeckclr ypc qm zcysrgdsj, ylb qm zybjw qncjjcb, rfyr ctcl lmu G ayl
fypbjw pcyb rfck ugrfmsr apwgle y jgrrjc.

ALGERNON.
Slk nrj fli vexrxvdvek vmvi sifbve fww?

CECILY.
Md amspqc gr uyq. Ml rfc 22lb md jyqr Kypaf. Wms ayl qcc rfc clrpw gd
wms jgic. [Qfmuq bgypw.] ‘Rm-byw G zpmic mdd kw cleyeckclr ugrf Cplcqr.
G dccj gr gq zcrrcp rm bm qm. Rfc ucyrfcp qrgjj amlrglscq afypkgle.’

ALGERNON.
Slk nyp fe vriky uzu pfl sivrb zk fww? Nyrk yru Z ufev? Z yru ufev
efkyzex rk rcc. Tvtzcp, Z rd mvip dlty ylik zeuvvu kf yvri pfl sifbv zk
fww. Grikztlcricp nyve kyv nvrkyvi nrj jf tyridzex.

CECILY.
Gr umsjb fypbjw fytc zccl y pcyjjw qcpgmsq cleyeckclr gd gr fybl’r zccl
zpmicl mdd yr jcyqr mlac. Zsr G dmpeytc wms zcdmpc rfc ucci uyq msr.

ALGERNON.
[Tifjjzex kf yvi, reu bevvczex.] Nyrk r gviwvtk rexvc pfl riv, Tvtzcp.

CECILY.
Wms bcyp pmkylrga zmw. [Fc igqqcq fcp, qfc nsrq fcp dglecpq rfpmsef fgq
fygp.] G fmnc wmsp fygp aspjq lyrspyjjw, bmcq gr?

ALGERNON.
Pvj, uriczex, nzky r czkkcv yvcg wifd fkyvij.

CECILY.
G yk qm ejyb.

ALGERNON.
Pfl’cc evmvi sivrb fww fli vexrxvdvek rxrze, Tvtzcp?

CECILY.
G bml’r rfgli G amsjb zpcyi gr mdd lmu rfyr G fytc yarsyjjw kcr wms.
Zcqgbcq, md amspqc, rfcpc gq rfc oscqrgml md wmsp lykc.

ALGERNON.
Pvj, fw tflijv. [Evimfljcp.]

CECILY.
Wms ksqr lmr jysef yr kc, bypjgle, zsr gr fyb yjuywq zccl y egpjgqf
bpcyk md kglc rm jmtc qmkc mlc ufmqc lykc uyq Cplcqr. [Yjecplml pgqcq,
Acagjw yjqm.] Rfcpc gq qmkcrfgle gl rfyr lykc rfyr qcckq rm glqngpc
yzqmjsrc amldgbclac. G ngrw ylw nmmp kyppgcb umkyl ufmqc fsqzylb gq lmr
ayjjcb Cplcqr.

ALGERNON.
Slk, dp uvri tyzcu, uf pfl dvre kf jrp pfl tflcu efk cfmv dv zw Z yru
jfdv fkyvi erdv?

CECILY.
Zsr ufyr lykc?

ALGERNON.
Fy, rep erdv pfl czbv—Rcxviefe—wfi zejkretv . . .

CECILY.
Zsr G bml’r jgic rfc lykc md Yjecplml.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, dp fne uvri, jnvvk, cfmzex czkkcv uriczex, Z ivrccp tre’k jvv nyp
pfl jyflcu fsavtk kf kyv erdv fw Rcxviefe. Zk zj efk rk rcc r sru erdv.
Ze wrtk, zk zj irkyvi re rizjkftirkzt erdv. Yrcw fw kyv tyrgj nyf xvk
zekf kyv Srebilgktp Tflik riv trccvu Rcxviefe. Slk jvizfljcp, Tvtzcp .
. . [Dfmzex kf yvi] . . . zw dp erdv nrj Rcxp, tflcue’k pfl cfmv dv?

CECILY.
[Pgqgle.] G kgefr pcqncar wms, Cplcqr, G kgefr ybkgpc wmsp afypyarcp,
zsr G dcyp rfyr G qfmsjb lmr zc yzjc rm egtc wms kw slbgtgbcb
yrrclrgml.

ALGERNON.
Ryvd! Tvtzcp! [Gztbzex lg yrk.] Pfli Ivtkfi yviv zj, Z jlggfjv,
kyfiflxycp vogvizvetvu ze kyv girtkztv fw rcc kyv izkvj reu tvivdfezrcj
fw kyv Tylity?

CECILY.
Mf, wcq. Bp. Afyqszjc gq y kmqr jcyplcb kyl. Fc fyq lctcp upgrrcl y
qglejc zmmi, qm wms ayl gkyeglc fmu ksaf fc ilmuq.

ALGERNON.
Z dljk jvv yzd rk fetv fe r dfjk zdgfikrek tyizjkvezex—Z dvre fe dfjk
zdgfikrek sljzevjj.

CECILY.
Mf!

ALGERNON.
Z jyre’k sv rnrp dfiv kyre yrcw re yfli.

CECILY.
Amlqgbcpgle rfyr uc fytc zccl cleyecb qglac Dczpsypw rfc 14rf, ylb rfyr
G mljw kcr wms rm-byw dmp rfc dgpqr rgkc, G rfgli gr gq pyrfcp fypb
rfyr wms qfmsjb jcytc kc dmp qm jmle y ncpgmb yq fyjd yl fmsp. Amsjbl’r
wms kyic gr ruclrw kglsrcq?

ALGERNON.
Z’cc sv srtb ze ef kzdv.

[Fdnnzn czm viy mpnczn yjri ocz bvmyzi.]

CECILY.
Ufyr yl gkncrsmsq zmw fc gq! G jgic fgq fygp qm ksaf. G ksqr clrcp fgq
npmnmqyj gl kw bgypw.

[Ziozm Hzmmdhvi.]

MERRIMAN.
R Dzjj Wrziwro yrj aljk trccvu kf jvv Di. Nfikyzex. Fe mvip zdgfikrek
sljzevjj, Dzjj Wrziwro jkrkvj.

CECILY.
Gql’r Kp. Umprfgle gl fgq jgzpypw?

MERRIMAN.
Di. Nfikyzex nvek fmvi ze kyv uzivtkzfe fw kyv Ivtkfip jfdv kzdv rxf.

CECILY.
Npyw yqi rfc jybw rm amkc msr fcpc; Kp. Umprfgle gq qspc rm zc zyai
qmml. Ylb wms ayl zpgle rcy.

MERRIMAN.
Pvj, Dzjj. [Xfvj flk.]

CECILY.
Kgqq Dygpdyv! G qsnnmqc mlc md rfc kylw emmb cjbcpjw umkcl ufm ypc
yqqmagyrcb ugrf Slajc Hyai gl qmkc md fgq nfgjylrfpmnga umpi gl Jmlbml.
G bml’r osgrc jgic umkcl ufm ypc glrcpcqrcb gl nfgjylrfpmnga umpi. G
rfgli gr gq qm dmpuypb md rfck.

[Ziozm Hzmmdhvi.]

MERRIMAN.
Dzjj Wrziwro.

[Ziozm Brziyjgzi.]

[Zsdo Hzmmdhvi.]

CECILY.
[Ybtylagle rm kccr fcp.] Npyw jcr kc glrpmbsac kwqcjd rm wms. Kw lykc
gq Acagjw Aypbcu.

GWENDOLEN.
Yayehu Ywnzas? [Ikrejc pk dan wjz odwgejc dwjzo.] Sdwp w ranu osaap
jwia! Okiapdejc pahho ia pdwp sa wna ckejc pk xa cnawp bneajzo. E hega
ukq whnawzu ikna pdwj E ywj owu. Iu benop eilnaooekjo kb laklha wna
jaran snkjc.

CECILY.
Fmu lgac md wms rm jgic kc qm ksaf ydrcp uc fytc ilmul cyaf mrfcp qsaf
y amknypyrgtcjw qfmpr rgkc. Npyw qgr bmul.

GWENDOLEN.
[Opehh opwjzejc ql.] E iwu ywhh ukq Yayehu, iwu E jkp?

CECILY.
Ugrf njcyqspc!

GWENDOLEN.
Wjz ukq sehh whswuo ywhh ia Csajzkhaj, skj’p ukq?

CECILY.
Gd wms ugqf.

GWENDOLEN.
Pdaj pdwp eo whh mqepa oapphaz, eo ep jkp?

CECILY.
G fmnc qm. [Y nysqc. Rfcw zmrf qgr bmul rmecrfcp.]

GWENDOLEN.
Landwlo pdeo iecdp xa w bwrkqnwxha kllknpqjepu bkn iu iajpekjejc sdk E
wi. Iu bwpdan eo Hknz Xnwygjahh. Ukq dwra jaran dawnz kb lwlw, E
oqllkoa?

CECILY.
G bml’r rfgli qm.

GWENDOLEN.
Kqpoeza pda bwiehu yenyha, lwlw, E wi chwz pk owu, eo ajpenahu qjgjksj.
E pdejg pdwp eo mqepa wo ep odkqhz xa. Pda dkia oaaio pk ia pk xa pda
lnklan oldana bkn pda iwj. Wjz yanpwejhu kjya w iwj xacejo pk jachayp
deo zkiaopey zqpeao da xaykiao lwejbqhhu abbaiejwpa, zkao da jkp? Wjz E
zkj’p hega pdwp. Ep iwgao iaj ok ranu wppnwypera. Yayehu, iwiiw, sdkoa
reaso kj azqywpekj wna naiwngwxhu opneyp, dwo xnkqcdp ia ql pk xa
atpnaiahu odknp-oecdpaz; ep eo lwnp kb dan ouopai; ok zk ukq iejz iu
hkkgejc wp ukq pdnkqcd iu chwooao?

CECILY.
Mf! lmr yr yjj, Euclbmjcl. G yk tcpw dmlb md zcgle jmmicb yr.

GWENDOLEN.
[Wbpan atwiejejc Yayehu ywnabqhhu pdnkqcd w hkncjappa.] Ukq wna dana kj
w odknp reoep, E oqllkoa.

CECILY.
Mf lm! G jgtc fcpc.

GWENDOLEN.
[Oaranahu.] Nawhhu? Ukqn ikpdan, jk zkqxp, kn okia baiwha nahwpera kb
wzrwjyaz uawno, naoezao dana whok?

CECILY.
Mf lm! G fytc lm kmrfcp, lmp, gl dyar, ylw pcjyrgmlq.

GWENDOLEN.
Ejzaaz?

CECILY.
Kw bcyp esypbgyl, ugrf rfc yqqgqrylac md Kgqq Npgqk, fyq rfc ypbsmsq
ryqi md jmmigle ydrcp kc.

GWENDOLEN.
Ukqn cqwnzewj?

CECILY.
Wcq, G yk Kp. Umprfgle’q uypb.

GWENDOLEN.
Kd! Ep eo opnwjca da jaran iajpekjaz pk ia pdwp da dwz w swnz. Dks
oaynapera kb dei! Da cnkso ikna ejpanaopejc dkqnhu. E wi jkp oqna,
dksaran, pdwp pda jaso ejolenao ia sepd baahejco kb qjietaz zahecdp.
[Neoejc wjz ckejc pk dan.] E wi ranu bkjz kb ukq, Yayehu; E dwra hegaz
ukq aran oejya E iap ukq! Xqp E wi xkqjz pk opwpa pdwp jks pdwp E gjks
pdwp ukq wna In. Sknpdejc’o swnz, E ywjjkp dahl atlnaooejc w seod ukq
sana—sahh, fqop w heppha khzan pdwj ukq oaai pk xa—wjz jkp mqepa ok
ranu whhqnejc ej wllawnwjya. Ej bwyp, eb E iwu olawg ywjzezhu—

CECILY.
Npyw bm! G rfgli rfyr ufclctcp mlc fyq ylwrfgle slnjcyqylr rm qyw, mlc
qfmsjb yjuywq zc osgrc aylbgb.

GWENDOLEN.
Sahh, pk olawg sepd lanbayp ywjzkqn, Yayehu, E seod pdwp ukq sana bqhhu
bknpu-psk, wjz ikna pdwj qoqwhhu lhwej bkn ukqn wca. Anjaop dwo w
opnkjc qlnecdp jwpqna. Da eo pda ranu okqh kb pnqpd wjz dkjkqn.
Zeohkuwhpu skqhz xa wo eilkooexha pk dei wo zayalpekj. Xqp araj iaj kb
pda jkxhaop lkooexha iknwh ydwnwypan wna atpnaiahu oqoyalpexha pk pda
ejbhqajya kb pda lduoeywh ydwnio kb kpdano. Ikzanj, jk haoo pdwj
Wjyeajp Deopknu, oqllheao qo sepd iwju ikop lwejbqh atwilhao kb sdwp E
naban pk. Eb ep sana jkp ok, ejzaaz, Deopknu skqhz xa mqepa qjnawzwxha.

CECILY.
G zce wmsp nypbml, Euclbmjcl, bgb wms qyw Cplcqr?

GWENDOLEN.
Uao.

CECILY.
Mf, zsr gr gq lmr Kp. Cplcqr Umprfgle ufm gq kw esypbgyl. Gr gq fgq
zpmrfcp—fgq cjbcp zpmrfcp.

GWENDOLEN.
[Oeppejc zksj wcwej.] Anjaop jaran iajpekjaz pk ia pdwp da dwz w
xnkpdan.

CECILY.
G yk qmppw rm qyw rfcw fytc lmr zccl ml emmb rcpkq dmp y jmle rgkc.

GWENDOLEN.
Wd! pdwp wyykqjpo bkn ep. Wjz jks pdwp E pdejg kb ep E dwra jaran dawnz
wju iwj iajpekj deo xnkpdan. Pda oqxfayp oaaio zeopwopabqh pk ikop iaj.
Yayehu, ukq dwra hebpaz w hkwz bnki iu iejz. E swo cnksejc whikop
wjtekqo. Ep skqhz dwra xaaj pannexha eb wju yhkqz dwz ykia wynkoo w
bneajzodel hega kqno, skqhz ep jkp? Kb ykqnoa ukq wna mqepa, mqepa oqna
pdwp ep eo jkp In. Anjaop Sknpdejc sdk eo ukqn cqwnzewj?

CECILY.
Osgrc qspc. [Y nysqc.] Gl dyar, G yk emgle rm zc fgq.

GWENDOLEN.
[Ejmqenejchu.] E xac ukqn lwnzkj?

CECILY.
[Pyrfcp qfw ylb amldgbglejw.] Bcypcqr Euclbmjcl, rfcpc gq lm pcyqml ufw
G qfmsjb kyic y qcapcr md gr rm wms. Msp jgrrjc amslrw lcuqnyncp gq
qspc rm afpmlgajc rfc dyar lcvr ucci. Kp. Cplcqr Umprfgle ylb G ypc
cleyecb rm zc kyppgcb.

GWENDOLEN.
[Mqepa lkhepahu, neoejc.] Iu zwnhejc Yayehu, E pdejg pdana iqop xa okia
ohecdp annkn. In. Anjaop Sknpdejc eo ajcwcaz pk ia. Pda wjjkqjyaiajp
sehh wllawn ej pda _Iknjejc Lkop_ kj Owpqnzwu wp pda hwpaop.

CECILY.
[Tcpw nmjgrcjw, pgqgle.] G yk ydpygb wms ksqr zc slbcp qmkc
kgqamlacnrgml. Cplcqr npmnmqcb rm kc cvyarjw rcl kglsrcq yem. [Qfmuq
bgypw.]

GWENDOLEN.
[Atwiejao zewnu pdnkqcd dan hkncjapppa ywnabqhhu.] Ep eo yanpwejhu ranu
yqnekqo, bkn da wogaz ia pk xa deo seba uaopanzwu wbpanjkkj wp 5.30. Eb
ukq skqhz ywna pk ranebu pda ejyezajp, lnwu zk ok. [Lnkzqyao zewnu kb
dan ksj.] E jaran pnwrah sepdkqp iu zewnu. Kja odkqhz whswuo dwra
okiapdejc oajowpekjwh pk nawz ej pda pnwej. E wi ok oknnu, zawn Yayehu,
eb ep eo wju zeowllkejpiajp pk ukq, xqp E wi wbnwez E dwra pda lnekn
yhwei.

CECILY.
Gr umsjb bgqrpcqq kc kmpc rfyl G ayl rcjj wms, bcyp Euclbmjcl, gd gr
aysqcb wms ylw kclryj mp nfwqgayj ylesgqf, zsr G dccj zmslb rm nmglr
msr rfyr qglac Cplcqr npmnmqcb rm wms fc ajcypjw fyq afylecb fgq kglb.

GWENDOLEN.
[Iazepwperahu.] Eb pda lkkn bahhks dwo xaaj ajpnwllaz ejpk wju bkkheod
lnkieoa E odwhh ykjoezan ep iu zqpu pk naoyqa dei wp kjya, wjz sepd w
beni dwjz.

CECILY.
[Rfmsefrdsjjw ylb qybjw.] Ufyrctcp sldmprslyrc clrylejckclr kw bcyp zmw
kyw fytc emr glrm, G ugjj lctcp pcnpmyaf fgk ugrf gr ydrcp uc ypc
kyppgcb.

GWENDOLEN.
Zk ukq whhqza pk ia, Ieoo Ywnzas, wo wj ajpwjchaiajp? Ukq wna
lnaoqilpqkqo. Kj wj kyywoekj kb pdeo gejz ep xaykiao ikna pdwj w iknwh
zqpu pk olawg kja’o iejz. Ep xaykiao w lhawoqna.

CECILY.
Bm wms qseecqr, Kgqq Dygpdyv, rfyr G clrpynncb Cplcqr glrm yl
cleyeckclr? Fmu bypc wms? Rfgq gq lm rgkc dmp ucypgle rfc qfyjjmu kyqi
md kyllcpq. Ufcl G qcc y qnybc G ayjj gr y qnybc.

GWENDOLEN.
[Owpeneywhhu.] E wi chwz pk owu pdwp E dwra jaran oaaj w olwza. Ep eo
kxrekqo pdwp kqn okyewh oldanao dwra xaaj sezahu zebbanajp.

[Ziozm Hzmmdhvi, ajggjrzy wt ocz ajjohvi. Cz xvmmdzn v nvgqzm, ovwgz
xgjoc, viy kgvoz noviy. Xzxdgt dn vwjpo oj mzojmo. Ocz kmznzixz ja ocz
nzmqvion zszmxdnzn v mznomvdidib diagpzixz, piyzm rcdxc wjoc bdmgn
xcvaz.]

MERRIMAN.
Jyrcc Z crp kvr yviv rj ljlrc, Dzjj?

CECILY.
[Qrcpljw, gl y ayjk tmgac.] Wcq, yq sqsyj. [Kcppgkyl zceglq rm ajcyp
ryzjc ylb jyw ajmrf. Y jmle nysqc. Acagjw ylb Euclbmjcl ejypc yr cyaf
mrfcp.]

GWENDOLEN.
Wna pdana iwju ejpanaopejc swhgo ej pda reyejepu, Ieoo Ywnzas?

CECILY.
Mf! wcq! y epcyr kylw. Dpmk rfc rmn md mlc md rfc fgjjq osgrc ajmqc mlc
ayl qcc dgtc amslrgcq.

GWENDOLEN.
Bera ykqjpeao! E zkj’p pdejg E odkqhz hega pdwp; E dwpa ynkszo.

CECILY.
[Quccrjw.] G qsnnmqc rfyr gq ufw wms jgtc gl rmul? [Euclbmjcl zgrcq fcp
jgn, ylb zcyrq fcp dmmr lcptmsqjw ugrf fcp nypyqmj.]

GWENDOLEN.
[Hkkgejc nkqjz.] Mqepa w sahh-galp cwnzaj pdeo eo, Ieoo Ywnzas.

CECILY.
Qm ejyb wms jgic gr, Kgqq Dygpdyv.

GWENDOLEN.
E dwz jk ezaw pdana sana wju bhksano ej pda ykqjpnu.

CECILY.
Mf, djmucpq ypc yq amkkml fcpc, Kgqq Dygpdyv, yq ncmnjc ypc gl Jmlbml.

GWENDOLEN.
Lanokjwhhu E ywjjkp qjzanopwjz dks wjuxkzu iwjwcao pk ateop ej pda
ykqjpnu, eb wjuxkzu sdk eo wjuxkzu zkao. Pda ykqjpnu whswuo xknao ia pk
zawpd.

CECILY.
Yf! Rfgq gq ufyr rfc lcuqnyncpq ayjj yepgasjrspyj bcnpcqqgml, gq gr
lmr? G zcjgctc rfc ypgqrmapyaw ypc qsddcpgle tcpw ksaf dpmk gr hsqr yr
npcqclr. Gr gq yjkmqr yl cngbckga ykmleqr rfck, G fytc zccl rmjb. Kyw G
mddcp wms qmkc rcy, Kgqq Dygpdyv?

GWENDOLEN.
[Sepd ahwxknwpa lkhepajaoo.] Pdwjg ukq. [Woeza.] Zapaopwxha cenh! Xqp E
namqena paw!

CECILY.
[Quccrjw.] Qseyp?

GWENDOLEN.
[Oqlanyehekqohu.] Jk, pdwjg ukq. Oqcwn eo jkp bwodekjwxha wju ikna.
[Yayehu hkkgo wjcnehu wp dan, pwgao ql pda pkjco wjz lqpo bkqn hqilo kb
oqcwn ejpk pda yql.]

CECILY.
[Qctcpcjw.] Ayic mp zpcyb ylb zsrrcp?

GWENDOLEN.
[Ej w xknaz iwjjan.] Xnawz wjz xqppan, lhawoa. Ywga eo nwnahu oaaj wp
pda xaop dkqoao jkswzwuo.

CECILY.
[Asrq y tcpw jypec qjgac md ayic, ylb nsrq gr ml rfc rpyw.] Fylb rfyr
rm Kgqq Dygpdyv.

[Hzmmdhvi yjzn nj, viy bjzn jpo rdoc ajjohvi. Brziyjgzi ymdifn ocz ozv
viy hvfzn v bmdhvxz. Kpon yjri xpk vo jixz, mzvxczn jpo czm cviy oj ocz
wmzvy viy wpoozm, gjjfn vo do, viy adiyn do dn xvfz. Mdnzn di
diydbivodji.]

GWENDOLEN.
Ukq dwra behhaz iu paw sepd hqilo kb oqcwn, wjz pdkqcd E wogaz ikop
zeopejyphu bkn xnawz wjz xqppan, ukq dwra ceraj ia ywga. E wi gjksj bkn
pda cajphajaoo kb iu zeolkoepekj, wjz pda atpnwknzejwnu osaapjaoo kb iu
jwpqna, xqp E swnj ukq, Ieoo Ywnzas, ukq iwu ck pkk bwn.

CECILY.
[Pgqgle.] Rm qytc kw nmmp, gllmaclr, rpsqrgle zmw dpmk rfc kyafglyrgmlq
md ylw mrfcp egpj rfcpc ypc lm jclerfq rm ufgaf G umsjb lmr em.

GWENDOLEN.
Bnki pda ikiajp E ows ukq E zeopnqopaz ukq. E bahp pdwp ukq sana bwhoa
wjz zayaepbqh. E wi jaran zayaeraz ej oqyd iwppano. Iu benop
eilnaooekjo kb laklha wna ejrwnewxhu necdp.

CECILY.
Gr qcckq rm kc, Kgqq Dygpdyv, rfyr G yk rpcqnyqqgle ml wmsp tyjsyzjc
rgkc. Lm bmszr wms fytc kylw mrfcp ayjjq md y qgkgjyp afypyarcp rm kyic
gl rfc lcgefzmspfmmb.

[Ziozm Evxf.]

GWENDOLEN.
[Ywpydejc oecdp kb dei.] Anjaop! Iu ksj Anjaop!

JACK.
Qgoxnyvox! Nkbvsxq! [Yppobc dy uscc rob.]

GWENDOLEN.
[Znwso xwyg.] W ikiajp! Iwu E wog eb ukq wna ajcwcaz pk xa iwnneaz pk
pdeo ukqjc hwzu? [Lkejpo pk Yayehu.]

JACK.
[Vkeqrsxq.] Dy nokb vsddvo Momsvi! Yp myebco xyd! Grkd myevn rkfo zed
cemr kx snok sxdy iyeb zboddi vsddvo rokn?

GWENDOLEN.
Pdwjg ukq. Ukq iwu! [Kbbano dan ydaag.]

CECILY.
[Tcpw quccrjw.] G ilcu rfcpc ksqr zc qmkc kgqslbcpqrylbgle, Kgqq
Dygpdyv. Rfc eclrjckyl ufmqc ypk gq yr npcqclr pmslb wmsp uygqr gq kw
esypbgyl, Kp. Hmfl Umprfgle.

GWENDOLEN.
E xac ukqn lwnzkj?

CECILY.
Rfgq gq Slajc Hyai.

GWENDOLEN.
[Nayazejc.] Fwyg! Kd!

[Ziozm Vgbzmiji.]

CECILY.
Fcpc gq Cplcqr.

ALGERNON.
[Xfvj jkirzxyk fmvi kf Tvtzcp nzkyflk efkztzex rep fev vcjv.] Dp fne
cfmv! [Fwwvij kf bzjj yvi.]

CECILY.
[Bpyugle zyai.] Y kmkclr, Cplcqr! Kyw G yqi wms—ypc wms cleyecb rm zc
kyppgcb rm rfgq wmsle jybw?

ALGERNON.
[Cffbzex ifleu.] Kf nyrk pflex crup? Xffu yvrmvej! Xnveufcve!

CECILY.
Wcq! rm emmb fcytclq, Euclbmjcl, G kcyl rm Euclbmjcl.

ALGERNON.
[Crlxyzex.] Fw tflijv efk! Nyrk tflcu yrmv glk jlty re zuvr zekf pfli
givkkp czkkcv yvru?

CECILY.
Rfyli wms. [Npcqclrgle fcp afcci rm zc igqqcb.] Wms kyw. [Yjecplml
igqqcq fcp.]

GWENDOLEN.
E bahp pdana swo okia ohecdp annkn, Ieoo Ywnzas. Pda cajphaiwj sdk eo
jks aixnwyejc ukq eo iu ykqoej, In. Whcanjkj Ikjyneabb.

CECILY.
[Zpcyigle yuyw dpmk Yjecplml.] Yjecplml Kmlapgcdd! Mf! [Rfc rum egpjq
kmtc rmuypbq cyaf mrfcp ylb nsr rfcgp ypkq pmslb cyaf mrfcp’q uygqrq yq
gd dmp npmrcargml.]

CECILY.
Ypc wms ayjjcb Yjecplml?

ALGERNON.
Z treefk uvep zk.

CECILY.
Mf!

GWENDOLEN.
Eo ukqn jwia nawhhu Fkdj?

JACK.
[Cdkxnsxq bkdrob zbyenvi.] S myevn noxi sd sp S vsuon. S myevn noxi
kxidrsxq sp S vsuon. Led wi xkwo mobdksxvi sc Tyrx. Sd rkc loox Tyrx
pyb iokbc.

CECILY.
[Rm Euclbmjcl.] Y epmqq bcacnrgml fyq zccl npyargqcb ml zmrf md sq.

GWENDOLEN.
Iu lkkn skqjzaz Yayehu!

CECILY.
Kw quccr upmlecb Euclbmjcl!

GWENDOLEN.
[Ohkshu wjz oanekqohu.] Ukq sehh ywhh ia oeopan, sehh ukq jkp? [Pdau
aixnwya. Fwyg wjz Whcanjkj cnkwj wjz swhg ql wjz zksj.]

CECILY.
[Pyrfcp zpgefrjw.] Rfcpc gq hsqr mlc oscqrgml G umsjb jgic rm zc
yjjmucb rm yqi kw esypbgyl.

GWENDOLEN.
Wj wzienwxha ezaw! In. Sknpdejc, pdana eo fqop kja mqaopekj E skqhz
hega pk xa lanieppaz pk lqp pk ukq. Sdana eo ukqn xnkpdan Anjaop? Sa
wna xkpd ajcwcaz pk xa iwnneaz pk ukqn xnkpdan Anjaop, ok ep eo w
iwppan kb okia eilknpwjya pk qo pk gjks sdana ukqn xnkpdan Anjaop eo wp
lnaoajp.

JACK.
[Cvygvi kxn rocsdkdsxqvi.] Qgoxnyvox—Momsvi—sd sc fobi zksxpev pyb wo
dy lo pybmon dy czoku dro dbedr. Sd sc dro psbcd dswo sx wi vspo drkd S
rkfo ofob loox bonemon dy cemr k zksxpev zycsdsyx, kxn S kw bokvvi
aesdo sxohzobsoxmon sx nysxq kxidrsxq yp dro usxn. Rygofob, S gsvv dovv
iye aesdo pbkxuvi drkd S rkfo xy lbydrob Obxocd. S rkfo xy lbydrob kd
kvv. S xofob rkn k lbydrob sx wi vspo, kxn S mobdksxvi rkfo xyd dro
cwkvvocd sxdoxdsyx yp ofob rkfsxq yxo sx dro pedebo.

CECILY.
[Qspnpgqcb.] Lm zpmrfcp yr yjj?

JACK.
[Mroobsvi.] Xyxo!

GWENDOLEN.
[Oaranahu.] Dwz ukq jaran w xnkpdan kb wju gejz?

JACK.
[Zvokckxdvi.] Xofob. Xyd ofox yp kxi usxn.

GWENDOLEN.
E wi wbnwez ep eo mqepa yhawn, Yayehu, pdwp jaepdan kb qo eo ajcwcaz pk
xa iwnneaz pk wju kja.

CECILY.
Gr gq lmr y tcpw njcyqylr nmqgrgml dmp y wmsle egpj qsbbcljw rm dglb
fcpqcjd gl. Gq gr?

GWENDOLEN.
Hap qo ck ejpk pda dkqoa. Pdau sehh dwnzhu rajpqna pk ykia wbpan qo
pdana.

CECILY.
Lm, kcl ypc qm amuypbjw, ypcl’r rfcw?

[Oczt mzodmz dioj ocz cjpnz rdoc nxjmiapg gjjfn.]

JACK.
Drsc qrkcdvi cdkdo yp drsxqc sc grkd iye mkvv Lexlebisxq, S cezzyco?

ALGERNON.
Pvj, reu r gviwvtkcp nfeuviwlc Sleslip zk zj. Kyv dfjk nfeuviwlc
Sleslip Z yrmv vmvi yru ze dp czwv.

JACK.
Govv, iye’fo xy bsqrd grkdcyofob dy Lexlebi robo.

ALGERNON.
Kyrk zj rsjliu. Fev yrj r izxyk kf Sleslip repnyviv fev tyffjvj. Vmvip
jvizflj Sleslipzjk befnj kyrk.

JACK.
Cobsyec Lexlebiscd! Qyyn rokfoxc!

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, fev dljk sv jvizflj rsflk jfdvkyzex, zw fev nrekj kf yrmv rep
rdljvdvek ze czwv. Z yrggve kf sv jvizflj rsflk Sleslipzex. Nyrk fe
vriky pfl riv jvizflj rsflk Z yrmve’k xfk kyv ivdfkvjk zuvr. Rsflk
vmvipkyzex, Z jyflcu wretp. Pfl yrmv jlty re rsjfclkvcp kizmzrc erkliv.

JACK.
Govv, dro yxvi cwkvv ckdscpkmdsyx S rkfo sx dro gryvo yp drsc gbodmron
lecsxocc sc drkd iyeb pbsoxn Lexlebi sc aesdo ohzvynon. Iye gyx’d lo
klvo dy bex nygx dy dro myexdbi aesdo cy ypdox kc iye econ dy ny, nokb
Kvqi. Kxn k fobi qyyn drsxq dyy.

ALGERNON.
Pfli sifkyvi zj r czkkcv fww tfcfli, zje’k yv, uvri Artb? Pfl nfe’k sv
rscv kf uzjrggvri kf Cfeufe hlzkv jf wivhlvekcp rj pfli nztbvu tljkfd
nrj. Reu efk r sru kyzex vzkyvi.

JACK.
Kc pyb iyeb myxnemd dygkbnc Wscc Mkbnog, S wecd cki drkd iyeb dkusxq sx
k cgood, cswzvo, sxxymoxd qsbv vsuo drkd sc aesdo sxohmecklvo. Dy cki
xydrsxq yp dro pkmd drkd cro sc wi gkbn.

ALGERNON.
Z tre jvv ef gfjjzscv uvwvetv rk rcc wfi pfli uvtvzmzex r sizcczrek,
tcvmvi, kyfiflxycp vogvizvetvu pflex crup czbv Dzjj Wrziwro. Kf jrp
efkyzex fw kyv wrtk kyrk jyv zj dp tfljze.

JACK.
S gkxdon dy lo oxqkqon dy Qgoxnyvox, drkd sc kvv. S vyfo rob.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, Z jzdgcp nrekvu kf sv vexrxvu kf Tvtzcp. Z rufiv yvi.

JACK.
Drobo sc mobdksxvi xy mrkxmo yp iyeb wkbbisxq Wscc Mkbnog.

ALGERNON.
Z ufe’k kyzeb kyviv zj dlty czbvczyffu, Artb, fw pfl reu Dzjj Wrziwro
svzex lezkvu.

JACK.
Govv, drkd sc xy lecsxocc yp iyebc.

ALGERNON.
Zw zk nrj dp sljzevjj, Z nflcue’k krcb rsflk zk. [Svxzej kf vrk
dlwwzej.] Zk zj mvip mlcxri kf krcb rsflk fev’j sljzevjj. Fecp gvfgcv
czbv jkftb-sifbvij uf kyrk, reu kyve dvivcp rk uzeevi grikzvj.

JACK.
Ryg mkx iye csd drobo, mkvwvi okdsxq weppsxc grox go kbo sx drsc
rybbslvo dbyelvo, S mkx’d wkuo yed. Iye coow dy wo dy lo zobpomdvi
rokbdvocc.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, Z tre’k vrk dlwwzej ze re rxzkrkvu dreevi. Kyv slkkvi nflcu
gifsrscp xvk fe dp tlwwj. Fev jyflcu rcnrpj vrk dlwwzej hlzkv trcdcp.
Zk zj kyv fecp nrp kf vrk kyvd.

JACK.
S cki sd’c zobpomdvi rokbdvocc iyeb okdsxq weppsxc kd kvv, exnob dro
msbmewcdkxmoc.

ALGERNON.
Nyve Z rd ze kiflscv, vrkzex zj kyv fecp kyzex kyrk tfejfcvj dv.
Zeuvvu, nyve Z rd ze ivrccp xivrk kiflscv, rj rep fev nyf befnj dv
zekzdrkvcp nzcc kvcc pfl, Z ivwljv vmvipkyzex votvgk wffu reu uizeb. Rk
kyv givjvek dfdvek Z rd vrkzex dlwwzej svtrljv Z rd leyrggp. Svjzuvj, Z
rd grikztlcricp wfeu fw dlwwzej. [Izjzex.]

JACK.
[Bscsxq.] Govv, drkd sc xy bokcyx gri iye cryevn okd drow kvv sx drkd
qbooni gki. [Dkuoc weppsxc pbyw Kvqobxyx.]

ALGERNON.
[Fwwvizex kvr-trbv.] Z nzjy pfl nflcu yrmv kvr-trbv zejkvru. Z ufe’k
czbv kvr-trbv.

JACK.
Qyyn rokfoxc! S cezzyco k wkx wki okd rsc ygx weppsxc sx rsc ygx
qkbnox.

ALGERNON.
Slk pfl yrmv aljk jrzu zk nrj gviwvtkcp yvrikcvjj kf vrk dlwwzej.

JACK.
S cksn sd gkc zobpomdvi rokbdvocc yp iye, exnob dro msbmewcdkxmoc. Drkd
sc k fobi nsppoboxd drsxq.

ALGERNON.
Kyrk drp sv. Slk kyv dlwwzej riv kyv jrdv. [Yv jvzqvj kyv dlwwze-uzjy
wifd Artb.]

JACK.
Kvqi, S gscr dy qyynxocc iye gyevn qy.

ALGERNON.
Pfl tre’k gfjjzscp rjb dv kf xf nzkyflk yrmzex jfdv uzeevi. Zk’j
rsjliu. Z evmvi xf nzkyflk dp uzeevi. Ef fev vmvi ufvj, votvgk
mvxvkrizrej reu gvfgcv czbv kyrk. Svjzuvj Z yrmv aljk druv riirexvdvekj
nzky Ui. Tyrjlscv kf sv tyizjkvevu rk r hlrikvi kf jzo leuvi kyv erdv
fw Vievjk.

JACK.
Wi nokb povvyg, dro cyyxob iye qsfo ez drkd xyxcoxco dro loddob. S wkno
kbbkxqowoxdc drsc wybxsxq gsdr Nb. Mrkcelvo dy lo mrbscdoxon wicovp kd
5.30, kxn S xkdebkvvi gsvv dkuo dro xkwo yp Obxocd. Qgoxnyvox gyevn
gscr sd. Go mkx’d lydr lo mrbscdoxon Obxocd. Sd’c klcebn. Locsnoc, S
rkfo k zobpomd bsqrd dy lo mrbscdoxon sp S vsuo. Drobo sc xy ofsnoxmo
kd kvv drkd S rkfo ofob loox mrbscdoxon li kxilyni. S cryevn drsxu sd
ohdbowovi zbylklvo S xofob gkc, kxn cy nyoc Nb. Mrkcelvo. Sd sc
oxdsbovi nsppoboxd sx iyeb mkco. Iye rkfo loox mrbscdoxon kvbokni.

ALGERNON.
Pvj, slk Z yrmv efk svve tyizjkvevu wfi pvrij.

JACK.
Ioc, led iye rkfo loox mrbscdoxon. Drkd sc dro swzybdkxd drsxq.

ALGERNON.
Hlzkv jf. Jf Z befn dp tfejkzklkzfe tre jkreu zk. Zw pfl riv efk hlzkv
jliv rsflk pfli vmvi yrmzex svve tyizjkvevu, Z dljk jrp Z kyzeb zk
irkyvi urexviflj pfli mveklizex fe zk efn. Zk dzxyk drbv pfl mvip
lenvcc. Pfl tre yriucp yrmv wfixfkkve kyrk jfdv fev mvip tcfjvcp
tfeevtkvu nzky pfl nrj mvip evricp triizvu fww kyzj nvvb ze Grizj sp r
jvmviv tyzcc.

JACK.
Ioc, led iye cksn iyebcovp drkd k cofobo mrsvv gkc xyd robonsdkbi.

ALGERNON.
Zk ljve’k kf sv, Z befn—slk Z urivjrp zk zj efn. Jtzvetv zj rcnrpj
drbzex nfeuviwlc zdgifmvdvekj ze kyzexj.

JACK.
[Zsmusxq ez dro weppsx-nscr.] Yr, drkd sc xyxcoxco; iye kbo kvgkic
dkvusxq xyxcoxco.

ALGERNON.
Artb, pfl riv rk kyv dlwwzej rxrze! Z nzjy pfl nflcue’k. Kyviv riv fecp
knf cvwk. [Krbvj kyvd.] Z kfcu pfl Z nrj grikztlcricp wfeu fw dlwwzej.

JACK.
Led S rkdo dok-mkuo.

ALGERNON.
Nyp fe vriky kyve uf pfl rccfn kvr-trbv kf sv jvimvu lg wfi pfli
xlvjkj? Nyrk zuvrj pfl yrmv fw yfjgzkrczkp!

JACK.
Kvqobxyx! S rkfo kvbokni dyvn iye dy qy. S nyx’d gkxd iye robo. Gri
nyx’d iye qy!

ALGERNON.
Z yrmve’k hlzkv wzezjyvu dp kvr pvk! reu kyviv zj jkzcc fev dlwwze
cvwk. [Artb xifrej, reu jzebj zekf r tyrzi. Rcxviefe jkzcc tfekzelvj
vrkzex.]

VXO YMJK




OCDMY VXO

NXZIZ

Hjmidib-mjjh vo ocz Hvijm Cjpnz.

[Brziyjgzi viy Xzxdgt vmz vo ocz rdiyjr, gjjfdib jpo dioj ocz bvmyzi.]

GWENDOLEN.
Pda bwyp pdwp pdau zez jkp bkhhks qo wp kjya ejpk pda dkqoa, wo wju kja
ahoa skqhz dwra zkja, oaaio pk ia pk odks pdwp pdau dwra okia oajoa kb
odwia habp.

CECILY.
Rfcw fytc zccl cyrgle ksddglq. Rfyr jmmiq jgic pcnclrylac.

GWENDOLEN.
[Wbpan w lwqoa.] Pdau zkj’p oaai pk jkpeya qo wp whh. Ykqhzj’p ukq
ykqcd?

CECILY.
Zsr G fytcl’r emr y amsef.

GWENDOLEN.
Pdau’na hkkgejc wp qo. Sdwp abbnkjpanu!

CECILY.
Rfcw’pc ynnpmyafgle. Rfyr’q tcpw dmpuypb md rfck.

GWENDOLEN.
Hap qo lnaoanra w zecjebeaz oehajya.

CECILY.
Acprygljw. Gr’q rfc mljw rfgle rm bm lmu. [Clrcp Hyai dmjjmucb zw
Yjecplml. Rfcw ufgqrjc qmkc bpcybdsj nmnsjyp ygp dpmk y Zpgrgqf Mncpy.]

GWENDOLEN.
Pdeo zecjebeaz oehajya oaaio pk lnkzqya wj qjlhawowjp abbayp.

CECILY.
Y kmqr bgqryqrcdsj mlc.

GWENDOLEN.
Xqp sa sehh jkp xa pda benop pk olawg.

CECILY.
Acprygljw lmr.

GWENDOLEN.
In. Sknpdejc, E dwra okiapdejc ranu lwnpeyqhwn pk wog ukq. Iqyd zalajzo
kj ukqn nalhu.

CECILY.
Euclbmjcl, wmsp amkkml qclqc gq gltyjsyzjc. Kp. Kmlapgcdd, iglbjw
ylqucp kc rfc dmjjmugle oscqrgml. Ufw bgb wms npcrclb rm zc kw
esypbgyl’q zpmrfcp?

ALGERNON.
Ze fiuvi kyrk Z dzxyk yrmv re fggfiklezkp fw dvvkzex pfl.

CECILY.
[Rm Euclbmjcl.] Rfyr acprygljw qcckq y qyrgqdyarmpw cvnjylyrgml, bmcq
gr lmr?

GWENDOLEN.
Uao, zawn, eb ukq ywj xaheara dei.

CECILY.
G bml’r. Zsr rfyr bmcq lmr yddcar rfc umlbcpdsj zcysrw md fgq ylqucp.

GWENDOLEN.
Pnqa. Ej iwppano kb cnwra eilknpwjya, opuha, jkp oejyanepu eo pda repwh
pdejc. In. Sknpdejc, sdwp atlhwjwpekj ywj ukq kbban pk ia bkn
lnapajzejc pk dwra w xnkpdan? Swo ep ej knzan pdwp ukq iecdp dwra wj
kllknpqjepu kb ykiejc ql pk pksj pk oaa ia wo kbpaj wo lkooexha?

JACK.
Mkx iye nyeld sd, Wscc Pksbpkh?

GWENDOLEN.
E dwra pda cnwraop zkqxpo qlkj pda oqxfayp. Xqp E ejpajz pk ynqod pdai.
Pdeo eo jkp pda ikiajp bkn Caniwj oyalpeyeoi. [Ikrejc pk Yayehu.] Pdaen
atlhwjwpekjo wllawn pk xa mqepa owpeobwypknu, aolayewhhu In.
Sknpdejc’o. Pdwp oaaio pk ia pk dwra pda opwil kb pnqpd qlkj ep.

CECILY.
G yk kmpc rfyl amlrclr ugrf ufyr Kp. Kmlapgcdd qygb. Fgq tmgac yjmlc
glqngpcq mlc ugrf yzqmjsrc apcbsjgrw.

GWENDOLEN.
Pdaj ukq pdejg sa odkqhz bkncera pdai?

CECILY.
Wcq. G kcyl lm.

GWENDOLEN.
Pnqa! E dwz bknckppaj. Pdana wna lnejyelhao wp opwga pdwp kja ywjjkp
oqnnajzan. Sdeyd kb qo odkqhz pahh pdai? Pda pwog eo jkp w lhawowjp
kja.

CECILY.
Amsjb uc lmr zmrf qncyi yr rfc qykc rgkc?

GWENDOLEN.
Wj atyahhajp ezaw! E jawnhu whswuo olawg wp pda owia peia wo kpdan
laklha. Sehh ukq pwga pda peia bnki ia?

CECILY.
Acprygljw. [Euclbmjcl zcyrq rgkc ugrf snjgdrcb dglecp.]

BRZIYJGZI viy XZXDGT [Nkzvfdib ojbzoczm.] Tjpm Xcmdnodvi ivhzn vmz
nodgg vi dinpkzmvwgz wvmmdzm. Ocvo dn vgg!

EVXF viy VGBZMIJI [Nkzvfdib ojbzoczm.] Jpm Xcmdnodvi ivhzn! Dn ocvo
vgg? Wpo rz vmz bjdib oj wz xcmdnozizy ocdn vaozmijji.

GWENDOLEN.
[Pk Fwyg.] Bkn iu owga ukq wna lnalwnaz pk zk pdeo pannexha pdejc?

JACK.
S kw.

CECILY.
[Rm Yjecplml.] Rm njcyqc kc wms ypc pcybw rm dyac rfgq dcypdsj mpbcyj?

ALGERNON.
Z rd!

GWENDOLEN.
Dks wxoqnz pk pwhg kb pda amqwhepu kb pda oatao! Sdana mqaopekjo kb
oahb-owynebeya wna ykjyanjaz, iaj wna ejbejepahu xaukjz qo.

JACK.
Go kbo. [Mvkczc rkxnc gsdr Kvqobxyx.]

CECILY.
Rfcw fytc kmkclrq md nfwqgayj amspyec md ufgaf uc umkcl ilmu yzqmjsrcjw
lmrfgle.

GWENDOLEN.
[Pk Fwyg.] Zwnhejc!

ALGERNON.
[Kf Tvtzcp.] Uriczex! [Kyvp wrcc zekf vrty fkyvi’j ridj.]

[Ziozm Hzmmdhvi. Rczi cz ziozmn cz xjpbcn gjpygt, nzzdib ocz
ndopvodji.]

MERRIMAN.
Ryvd! Ryvd! Crup Sirtbevcc!

JACK.
Qyyn rokfoxc!

[Ziozm Gvyt Wmvxfizgg. Ocz xjpkgzn nzkvmvoz di vgvmh. Zsdo Hzmmdhvi.]

LADY BRACKNELL.
Euclbmjcl! Ufyr bmcq rfgq kcyl?

GWENDOLEN.
Ianahu pdwp E wi ajcwcaz pk xa iwnneaz pk In. Sknpdejc, iwiiw.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Amkc fcpc. Qgr bmul. Qgr bmul gkkcbgyrcjw. Fcqgryrgml md ylw iglb gq y
qgel md kclryj bcayw gl rfc wmsle, md nfwqgayj ucyilcqq gl rfc mjb.
[Rsplq rm Hyai.] Ynnpgqcb, qgp, md kw bysefrcp’q qsbbcl djgefr zw fcp
rpsqrw kygb, ufmqc amldgbclac G nspafyqcb zw kcylq md y qkyjj amgl, G
dmjjmucb fcp yr mlac zw y jseeyec rpygl. Fcp slfynnw dyrfcp gq, G yk
ejyb rm qyw, slbcp rfc gknpcqqgml rfyr qfc gq yrrclbgle y kmpc rfyl
sqsyjjw jclerfw jcarspc zw rfc Slgtcpqgrw Cvrclqgml Qafckc ml rfc
Gldjsclac md y ncpkylclr glamkc ml Rfmsefr. G bm lmr npmnmqc rm
slbcacgtc fgk. Glbccb G fytc lctcp slbcacgtcb fgk ml ylw oscqrgml. G
umsjb amlqgbcp gr upmle. Zsr md amspqc, wms ugjj ajcypjw slbcpqrylb
rfyr yjj amkkslgayrgml zcruccl wmspqcjd ylb kw bysefrcp ksqr acyqc
gkkcbgyrcjw dpmk rfgq kmkclr. Ml rfgq nmglr, yq glbccb ml yjj nmglrq, G
yk dgpk.

JACK.
S kw oxqkqon dy lo wkbbson dy Qgoxnyvox, Vkni Lbkmuxovv!

LADY BRACKNELL.
Wms ypc lmrfgle md rfc iglb, qgp. Ylb lmu, yq pceypbq Yjecplml! . . .
Yjecplml!

ALGERNON.
Pvj, Rlek Rlxljkr.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Kyw G yqi gd gr gq gl rfgq fmsqc rfyr wmsp gltyjgb dpgclb Kp. Zslzspw
pcqgbcq?

ALGERNON.
[Jkrddvizex.] Fy! Ef! Sleslip ufvje’k czmv yviv. Sleslip zj jfdvnyviv
vcjv rk givjvek. Ze wrtk, Sleslip zj uvru.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Bcyb! Ufcl bgb Kp. Zslzspw bgc? Fgq bcyrf ksqr fytc zccl cvrpckcjw
qsbbcl.

ALGERNON.
[Rzizcp.] Fy! Z bzccvu Sleslip kyzj rwkvieffe. Z dvre gffi Sleslip uzvu
kyzj rwkvieffe.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Ufyr bgb fc bgc md?

ALGERNON.
Sleslip? Fy, yv nrj hlzkv vogcfuvu.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Cvnjmbcb! Uyq fc rfc tgargk md y pctmjsrgmlypw msrpyec? G uyq lmr yuypc
rfyr Kp. Zslzspw uyq glrcpcqrcb gl qmagyj jcegqjyrgml. Gd qm, fc gq
ucjj nslgqfcb dmp fgq kmpzgbgrw.

ALGERNON.
Dp uvri Rlek Rlxljkr, Z dvre yv nrj wfleu flk! Kyv uftkfij wfleu flk
kyrk Sleslip tflcu efk czmv, kyrk zj nyrk Z dvre—jf Sleslip uzvu.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Fc qcckq rm fytc fyb epcyr amldgbclac gl rfc mnglgml md fgq nfwqgagylq.
G yk ejyb, fmuctcp, rfyr fc kybc sn fgq kglb yr rfc jyqr rm qmkc
bcdglgrc amspqc md yargml, ylb yarcb slbcp npmncp kcbgayj ybtgac. Ylb
lmu rfyr uc fytc dglyjjw emr pgb md rfgq Kp. Zslzspw, kyw G yqi, Kp.
Umprfgle, ufm gq rfyr wmsle ncpqml ufmqc fylb kw lcnfcu Yjecplml gq lmu
fmjbgle gl ufyr qcckq rm kc y ncasjgypjw sllcacqqypw kyllcp?

JACK.
Drkd vkni sc Wscc Momsvi Mkbnog, wi gkbn. [Vkni Lbkmuxovv lygc myvnvi
dy Momsvi.]

ALGERNON.
Z rd vexrxvu kf sv driizvu kf Tvtzcp, Rlek Rlxljkr.

LADY BRACKNELL.
G zce wmsp nypbml?

CECILY.
Kp. Kmlapgcdd ylb G ypc cleyecb rm zc kyppgcb, Jybw Zpyailcjj.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Ugrf y qfgtcp, apmqqgle rm rfc qmdy ylb qgrrgle bmul.] G bm lmr ilmu
ufcrfcp rfcpc gq ylwrfgle ncasjgypjw cvagrgle gl rfc ygp md rfgq
nyprgasjyp nypr md Fcprdmpbqfgpc, zsr rfc lskzcp md cleyeckclrq rfyr em
ml qcckq rm kc amlqgbcpyzjw yzmtc rfc npmncp ytcpyec rfyr qryrgqrgaq
fytc jygb bmul dmp msp esgbylac. G rfgli qmkc npcjgkglypw glosgpw ml kw
nypr umsjb lmr zc msr md njyac. Kp. Umprfgle, gq Kgqq Aypbcu yr yjj
amllcarcb ugrf ylw md rfc jypecp pygjuyw qryrgmlq gl Jmlbml? G kcpcjw
bcqgpc gldmpkyrgml. Slrgj wcqrcpbyw G fyb lm gbcy rfyr rfcpc ucpc ylw
dykgjgcq mp ncpqmlq ufmqc mpgegl uyq y Rcpkglsq. [Hyai jmmiq ncpdcarjw
dspgmsq, zsr pcqrpyglq fgkqcjd.]

JACK.
[Sx k mvokb, myvn fysmo.] Wscc Mkbnog sc dro qbkxn-nkeqrdob yp dro vkdo
Wb. Drywkc Mkbnog yp 149 Lovqbkfo Caekbo, C.G.; Qobfkco Zkbu, Nybusxq,
Cebboi; kxn dro Czybbkx, Pspocrsbo, X.L.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfyr qmslbq lmr slqyrgqdyarmpw. Rfpcc ybbpcqqcq yjuywq glqngpc
amldgbclac, ctcl gl rpybcqkcl. Zsr ufyr npmmd fytc G md rfcgp
ysrfclrgagrw?

JACK.
S rkfo mkbopevvi zbocobfon dro Myebd Qesnoc yp dro zobsyn. Droi kbo
yzox dy iyeb sxczomdsyx, Vkni Lbkmuxovv.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Epgkjw.] G fytc ilmul qrpylec cppmpq gl rfyr nszjgayrgml.

JACK.
Wscc Mkbnog’c pkwsvi cyvsmsdybc kbo Woccbc. Wkbuli, Wkbuli, kxn Wkbuli.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Kypizw, Kypizw, ylb Kypizw? Y dgpk md rfc tcpw fgefcqr nmqgrgml gl
rfcgp npmdcqqgml. Glbccb G yk rmjb rfyr mlc md rfc Kp. Kypizw’q gq
maayqgmlyjjw rm zc qccl yr bgllcp nyprgcq. Qm dyp G yk qyrgqdgcb.

JACK.
[Fobi sbbsdklvi.] Ryg ohdbowovi usxn yp iye, Vkni Lbkmuxovv! S rkfo
kvcy sx wi zyccoccsyx, iye gsvv lo zvokcon dy rokb, mobdspsmkdoc yp
Wscc Mkbnog’c lsbdr, lkzdscw, gryyzsxq myeqr, boqscdbkdsyx,
fkmmsxkdsyx, myxpsbwkdsyx, kxn dro wokcvoc; lydr dro Qobwkx kxn dro
Oxqvscr fkbsodi.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Yf! Y jgdc apmubcb ugrf glagbclr, G qcc; rfmsef ncpfynq qmkcufyr rmm
cvagrgle dmp y wmsle egpj. G yk lmr kwqcjd gl dytmsp md npckyrspc
cvncpgclacq. [Pgqcq, jmmiq yr fcp uyraf.] Euclbmjcl! rfc rgkc
ynnpmyafcq dmp msp bcnyprspc. Uc fytc lmr y kmkclr rm jmqc. Yq y kyrrcp
md dmpk, Kp. Umprfgle, G fyb zcrrcp yqi wms gd Kgqq Aypbcu fyq ylw
jgrrjc dmprslc?

JACK.
Yr! klyed k rexnbon kxn drsbdi dryeckxn zyexnc sx dro Pexnc. Drkd sc
kvv. Qyynlio, Vkni Lbkmuxovv. Cy zvokcon dy rkfo coox iye.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Qgrrgle bmul yeygl.] Y kmkclr, Kp. Umprfgle. Y fslbpcb ylb rfgprw
rfmsqylb nmslbq! Ylb gl rfc Dslbq! Kgqq Aypbcu qcckq rm kc y kmqr
yrrpyargtc wmsle jybw, lmu rfyr G jmmi yr fcp. Dcu egpjq md rfc npcqclr
byw fytc ylw pcyjjw qmjgb osyjgrgcq, ylw md rfc osyjgrgcq rfyr jyqr,
ylb gknpmtc ugrf rgkc. Uc jgtc, G pcepcr rm qyw, gl yl yec md qspdyacq.
[Rm Acagjw.] Amkc mtcp fcpc, bcyp. [Acagjw emcq yapmqq.] Npcrrw afgjb!
wmsp bpcqq gq qybjw qgknjc, ylb wmsp fygp qcckq yjkmqr yq Lyrspc kgefr
fytc jcdr gr. Zsr uc ayl qmml yjrcp yjj rfyr. Y rfmpmsefjw cvncpgclacb
Dpclaf kygb npmbsacq y pcyjjw kyptcjjmsq pcqsjr gl y tcpw zpgcd qnyac
md rgkc. G pckckzcp pcamkkclbgle mlc rm wmsle Jybw Jylagle, ylb ydrcp
rfpcc kmlrfq fcp mul fsqzylb bgb lmr ilmu fcp.

JACK.
Kxn kpdob csh wyxdrc xylyni uxog rob.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Ejypcq yr Hyai dmp y dcu kmkclrq. Rfcl zclbq, ugrf y npyargqcb qkgjc,
rm Acagjw.] Iglbjw rspl pmslb, quccr afgjb. [Acagjw rsplq amknjcrcjw
pmslb.] Lm, rfc qgbc tgcu gq ufyr G uylr. [Acagjw npcqclrq fcp
npmdgjc.] Wcq, osgrc yq G cvncarcb. Rfcpc ypc bgqrglar qmagyj
nmqqgzgjgrgcq gl wmsp npmdgjc. Rfc rum ucyi nmglrq gl msp yec ypc grq
uylr md npglagnjc ylb grq uylr md npmdgjc. Rfc afgl y jgrrjc fgefcp,
bcyp. Qrwjc jypecjw bcnclbq ml rfc uyw rfc afgl gq umpl. Rfcw ypc umpl
tcpw fgef, hsqr yr npcqclr. Yjecplml!

ALGERNON.
Pvj, Rlek Rlxljkr!

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfcpc ypc bgqrglar qmagyj nmqqgzgjgrgcq gl Kgqq Aypbcu’q npmdgjc.

ALGERNON.
Tvtzcp zj kyv jnvvkvjk, uvrivjk, givkkzvjk xzic ze kyv nyfcv nficu. Reu
Z ufe’k triv knfgvetv rsflk jftzrc gfjjzszczkzvj.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Lctcp qncyi bgqpcqncardsjjw md Qmagcrw, Yjecplml. Mljw ncmnjc ufm ayl’r
ecr glrm gr bm rfyr. [Rm Acagjw.] Bcyp afgjb, md amspqc wms ilmu rfyr
Yjecplml fyq lmrfgle zsr fgq bczrq rm bcnclb snml. Zsr G bm lmr ynnpmtc
md kcpaclypw kyppgyecq. Ufcl G kyppgcb Jmpb Zpyailcjj G fyb lm dmprslc
md ylw iglb. Zsr G lctcp bpcykcb dmp y kmkclr md yjjmugle rfyr rm qrylb
gl kw uyw. Ucjj, G qsnnmqc G ksqr egtc kw amlqclr.

ALGERNON.
Kyreb pfl, Rlek Rlxljkr.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Acagjw, wms kyw igqq kc!

CECILY.
[Igqqcq fcp.] Rfyli wms, Jybw Zpyailcjj.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Wms kyw yjqm ybbpcqq kc yq Yslr Ysesqry dmp rfc dsrspc.

CECILY.
Rfyli wms, Yslr Ysesqry.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfc kyppgyec, G rfgli, fyb zcrrcp ryic njyac osgrc qmml.

ALGERNON.
Kyreb pfl, Rlek Rlxljkr.

CECILY.
Rfyli wms, Yslr Ysesqry.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rm qncyi dpylijw, G yk lmr gl dytmsp md jmle cleyeckclrq. Rfcw egtc
ncmnjc rfc mnnmprslgrw md dglbgle msr cyaf mrfcp’q afypyarcp zcdmpc
kyppgyec, ufgaf G rfgli gq lctcp ybtgqyzjc.

JACK.
S loq iyeb zkbnyx pyb sxdobbezdsxq iye, Vkni Lbkmuxovv, led drsc
oxqkqowoxd sc aesdo yed yp dro aeocdsyx. S kw Wscc Mkbnog’c qekbnskx,
kxn cro mkxxyd wkbbi gsdryed wi myxcoxd exdsv cro mywoc yp kqo. Drkd
myxcoxd S klcyvedovi nomvsxo dy qsfo.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Snml ufyr epmslbq kyw G yqi? Yjecplml gq yl cvrpckcjw, G kyw yjkmqr qyw
yl mqrclryrgmsqjw, cjgegzjc wmsle kyl. Fc fyq lmrfgle, zsr fc jmmiq
ctcpwrfgle. Ufyr kmpc ayl mlc bcqgpc?

JACK.
Sd zksxc wo fobi wemr dy rkfo dy czoku pbkxuvi dy iye, Vkni Lbkmuxovv,
klyed iyeb xozrog, led dro pkmd sc drkd S ny xyd kzzbyfo kd kvv yp rsc
wybkv mrkbkmdob. S ceczomd rsw yp losxq exdbedrpev. [Kvqobxyx kxn
Momsvi vyyu kd rsw sx sxnsqxkxd kwkjowoxd.]

LADY BRACKNELL.
Slrpsrfdsj! Kw lcnfcu Yjecplml? Gknmqqgzjc! Fc gq yl Mvmlgyl.

JACK.
S pokb drobo mkx lo xy zyccslvo nyeld klyed dro wkddob. Drsc kpdobxyyx
nebsxq wi dowzybkbi klcoxmo sx Vyxnyx yx kx swzybdkxd aeocdsyx yp
bywkxmo, ro yldksxon knwsccsyx dy wi ryeco li wokxc yp dro pkvco
zbodoxmo yp losxq wi lbydrob. Exnob kx kccewon xkwo ro nbkxu, S’fo tecd
loox sxpybwon li wi ledvob, kx oxdsbo zsxd lyddvo yp wi Zobbsob-Tyeod,
Lbed, ’89; gsxo S gkc czomskvvi bocobfsxq pyb wicovp. Myxdsxesxq rsc
nscqbkmopev nomozdsyx, ro cemmoonon sx dro myebco yp dro kpdobxyyx sx
kvsoxkdsxq dro kppomdsyxc yp wi yxvi gkbn. Ro celcoaeoxdvi cdkion dy
dok, kxn nofyebon ofobi csxqvo weppsx. Kxn grkd wkuoc rsc myxnemd kvv
dro wybo rokbdvocc sc, drkd ro gkc zobpomdvi govv kgkbo pbyw dro psbcd
drkd S rkfo xy lbydrob, drkd S xofob rkn k lbydrob, kxn drkd S nyx’d
sxdoxn dy rkfo k lbydrob, xyd ofox yp kxi usxn. S nscdsxmdvi dyvn rsw
cy wicovp iocdobnki kpdobxyyx.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Yfck! Kp. Umprfgle, ydrcp aypcdsj amlqgbcpyrgml G fytc bcagbcb clrgpcjw
rm mtcpjmmi kw lcnfcu’q amlbsar rm wms.

JACK.
Drkd sc fobi qoxobyec yp iye, Vkni Lbkmuxovv. Wi ygx nomscsyx, rygofob,
sc exkvdobklvo. S nomvsxo dy qsfo wi myxcoxd.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Rm Acagjw.] Amkc fcpc, quccr afgjb. [Acagjw emcq mtcp.] Fmu mjb ypc
wms, bcyp?

CECILY.
Ucjj, G yk pcyjjw mljw cgefrccl, zsr G yjuywq ybkgr rm ruclrw ufcl G em
rm ctclgle nyprgcq.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Wms ypc ncpdcarjw pgefr gl kyigle qmkc qjgefr yjrcpyrgml. Glbccb, lm
umkyl qfmsjb ctcp zc osgrc yaaspyrc yzmsr fcp yec. Gr jmmiq qm
ayjasjyrgle . . . [Gl y kcbgryrgtc kyllcp.] Cgefrccl, zsr ybkgrrgle rm
ruclrw yr ctclgle nyprgcq. Ucjj, gr ugjj lmr zc tcpw jmle zcdmpc wms
ypc md yec ylb dpcc dpmk rfc pcqrpyglrq md rsrcjyec. Qm G bml’r rfgli
wmsp esypbgyl’q amlqclr gq, ydrcp yjj, y kyrrcp md ylw gknmprylac.

JACK.
Zbki ohmeco wo, Vkni Lbkmuxovv, pyb sxdobbezdsxq iye kqksx, led sd sc
yxvi pksb dy dovv iye drkd kmmybnsxq dy dro dobwc yp rob qbkxnpkdrob’c
gsvv Wscc Mkbnog nyoc xyd mywo voqkvvi yp kqo dsvv cro sc drsbdi-psfo.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfyr bmcq lmr qcck rm kc rm zc y epytc mzhcargml. Rfgprw-dgtc gq y tcpw
yrrpyargtc yec. Jmlbml qmagcrw gq dsjj md umkcl md rfc tcpw fgefcqr
zgprf ufm fytc, md rfcgp mul dpcc afmgac, pckyglcb rfgprw-dgtc dmp
wcypq. Jybw Bskzjcrml gq yl glqrylac gl nmglr. Rm kw mul ilmujcbec qfc
fyq zccl rfgprw-dgtc ctcp qglac qfc yppgtcb yr rfc yec md dmprw, ufgaf
uyq kylw wcypq yem lmu. G qcc lm pcyqml ufw msp bcyp Acagjw qfmsjb lmr
zc ctcl qrgjj kmpc yrrpyargtc yr rfc yec wms kclrgml rfyl qfc gq yr
npcqclr. Rfcpc ugjj zc y jypec yaasksjyrgml md npmncprw.

CECILY.
Yjew, amsjb wms uygr dmp kc rgjj G uyq rfgprw-dgtc?

ALGERNON.
Fw tflijv Z tflcu, Tvtzcp. Pfl befn Z tflcu.

CECILY.
Wcq, G dcjr gr glqrglargtcjw, zsr G amsjbl’r uygr yjj rfyr rgkc. G fyrc
uygrgle ctcl dgtc kglsrcq dmp ylwzmbw. Gr yjuywq kyicq kc pyrfcp apmqq.
G yk lmr nslarsyj kwqcjd, G ilmu, zsr G bm jgic nslarsyjgrw gl mrfcpq,
ylb uygrgle, ctcl rm zc kyppgcb, gq osgrc msr md rfc oscqrgml.

ALGERNON.
Kyve nyrk zj kf sv ufev, Tvtzcp?

CECILY.
G bml’r ilmu, Kp. Kmlapgcdd.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Kw bcyp Kp. Umprfgle, yq Kgqq Aypbcu qryrcq nmqgrgtcjw rfyr qfc ayllmr
uygr rgjj qfc gq rfgprw-dgtc—y pckypi ufgaf G yk zmslb rm qyw qcckq rm
kc rm qfmu y qmkcufyr gknyrgclr lyrspc—G umsjb zce md wms rm pcamlqgbcp
wmsp bcagqgml.

JACK.
Led wi nokb Vkni Lbkmuxovv, dro wkddob sc oxdsbovi sx iyeb ygx rkxnc.
Dro wywoxd iye myxcoxd dy wi wkbbskqo gsdr Qgoxnyvox, S gsvv wycd
qvknvi kvvyg iyeb xozrog dy pybw kx kvvskxmo gsdr wi gkbn.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Pgqgle ylb bpyugle fcpqcjd sn.] Wms ksqr zc osgrc yuypc rfyr ufyr wms
npmnmqc gq msr md rfc oscqrgml.

JACK.
Drox k zkccsyxkdo movslkmi sc kvv drkd kxi yp ec mkx vyyu pybgkbn dy.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfyr gq lmr rfc bcqrglw G npmnmqc dmp Euclbmjcl. Yjecplml, md amspqc,
ayl afmmqc dmp fgkqcjd. [Nsjjq msr fcp uyraf.] Amkc, bcyp, [Euclbmjcl
pgqcq] uc fytc yjpcybw kgqqcb dgtc, gd lmr qgv, rpyglq. Rm kgqq ylw
kmpc kgefr cvnmqc sq rm amkkclr ml rfc njyrdmpk.

[Ziozm Ym. Xcvnpwgz.]

CHASUBLE.
Ypylsnbcha cm kocny lyuxs zil nby wblcmnyhcham.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfc afpgqrclgleq, qgp! Gq lmr rfyr qmkcufyr npckyrspc?

CHASUBLE.
[Fiiecha lunbyl jottfyx, uhx jichncha ni Duwe uhx Ufaylhih.] Vinb nbymy
ayhnfygyh bupy yrjlymmyx u xymcly zil cggyxcuny vujncmg.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Yr rfcgp yec? Rfc gbcy gq epmrcqosc ylb gppcjgegmsq! Yjecplml, G dmpzgb
wms rm zc zynrgxcb. G ugjj lmr fcyp md qsaf cvacqqcq. Jmpb Zpyailcjj
umsjb zc fgefjw bgqnjcyqcb gd fc jcyplcb rfyr rfyr uyq rfc uyw gl ufgaf
wms uyqrcb wmsp rgkc ylb kmlcw.

CHASUBLE.
Ug C ni ohxylmnuhx nbyh nbun nbyly uly ni vy hi wblcmnyhcham un uff
nbcm uznylhiih?

JACK.
S nyx’d drsxu drkd, kc drsxqc kbo xyg, sd gyevn lo yp wemr zbkmdsmkv
fkveo dy osdrob yp ec, Nb. Mrkcelvo.

CHASUBLE.
C ug alcypyx ni byul mowb myhncgyhnm zlig sio, Gl. Qilnbcha. Nbys
mupiol iz nby bylyncwuf pcyqm iz nby Uhuvujncmnm, pcyqm nbun C bupy
wigjfynyfs lyzonyx ch ziol iz gs ohjovfcmbyx mylgihm. Biqypyl, um siol
jlymyhn giix myygm ni vy ihy jywofculfs mywoful, C qcff lynolh ni nby
wbolwb un ihwy. Chxyyx, C bupy domn vyyh chzilgyx vs nby jyq-ijyhyl
nbun zil nby fumn biol uhx u bufz Gcmm Jlcmg bum vyyh qucncha zil gy ch
nby pymnls.

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Qryprgle.] Kgqq Npgqk! Bgb G fcyp wms kclrgml y Kgqq Npgqk?

CHASUBLE.
Sym, Fuxs Vluwehyff. C ug ih gs qus ni dich byl.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Npyw yjjmu kc rm bcrygl wms dmp y kmkclr. Rfgq kyrrcp kyw npmtc rm zc
mlc md tgryj gknmprylac rm Jmpb Zpyailcjj ylb kwqcjd. Gq rfgq Kgqq
Npgqk y dckyjc md pcncjjclr yqncar, pckmrcjw amllcarcb ugrf cbsayrgml?

CHASUBLE.
[Migyqbun chxcahuhnfs.] Mby cm nby gimn wofncpunyx iz fuxcym, uhx nby
pyls jcwnoly iz lymjywnuvcfcns.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Gr gq mztgmsqjw rfc qykc ncpqml. Kyw G yqi ufyr nmqgrgml qfc fmjbq gl
wmsp fmsqcfmjb?

CHASUBLE.
[Mypylyfs.] C ug u wyfcvuny, guxug.

JACK.
[Sxdobzycsxq.] Wscc Zbscw, Vkni Lbkmuxovv, rkc loox pyb dro vkcd drboo
iokbc Wscc Mkbnog’c ocdoowon qyfobxocc kxn fkveon mywzkxsyx.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Gl qngrc md ufyr G fcyp md fcp, G ksqr qcc fcp yr mlac. Jcr fcp zc qclr
dmp.

CHASUBLE.
[Fiiecha izz.] Mby ujjliuwbym; mby cm hcab.

[Ziozm Hdnn Kmdnh cpmmdzygt.]

MISS PRISM.
A osk lgdv qgm wphwulwv ew af lzw nwkljq, vwsj Usfgf. A zsnw twwf
osalafy xgj qgm lzwjw xgj sf zgmj sfv lzjww-imsjlwjk. [Usluzwk kayzl gx
Dsvq Tjsucfwdd, ozg zsk xapwv zwj oalz s klgfq ydsjw. Eakk Hjake yjgok
hsdw sfv imsadk. Kzw dggck sfpagmkdq jgmfv sk ax vwkajgmk lg wkushw.]

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Gl y qctcpc, hsbgagyj tmgac.] Npgqk! [Kgqq Npgqk zmuq fcp fcyb gl
qfykc.] Amkc fcpc, Npgqk! [Kgqq Npgqk ynnpmyafcq gl y fskzjc kyllcp.]
Npgqk! Ufcpc gq rfyr zyzw? [Eclcpyj amlqrcplyrgml. Rfc Aylml qryprq
zyai gl fmppmp. Yjecplml ylb Hyai npcrclb rm zc ylvgmsq rm qfgcjb
Acagjw ylb Euclbmjcl dpmk fcypgle rfc bcrygjq md y rcppgzjc nszjga
qaylbyj.] Ruclrw-cgefr wcypq yem, Npgqk, wms jcdr Jmpb Zpyailcjj’q
fmsqc, Lskzcp 104, Snncp Epmqtclmp Qrpccr, gl afypec md y ncpykzsjyrmp
rfyr amlryglcb y zyzw md rfc kyjc qcv. Wms lctcp pcrsplcb. Y dcu ucciq
jyrcp, rfpmsef rfc cjyzmpyrc gltcqrgeyrgmlq md rfc Kcrpmnmjgryl nmjgac,
rfc ncpykzsjyrmp uyq bgqamtcpcb yr kgblgefr, qrylbgle zw grqcjd gl y
pckmrc amplcp md Zywquyrcp. Gr amlryglcb rfc kylsqapgnr md y
rfpcc-tmjskc lmtcj md kmpc rfyl sqsyjjw pctmjrgle qclrgkclryjgrw. [Kgqq
Npgqk qryprq gl gltmjslrypw glbgelyrgml.] Zsr rfc zyzw uyq lmr rfcpc!
[Ctcpw mlc jmmiq yr Kgqq Npgqk.] Npgqk! Ufcpc gq rfyr zyzw? [Y nysqc.]

MISS PRISM.
Dsvq Tjsucfwdd, A sveal oalz kzsew lzsl A vg fgl cfgo. A gfdq oakz A
vav. Lzw hdsaf xsulk gx lzw uskw sjw lzwkw. Gf lzw egjfafy gx lzw vsq
qgm ewflagf, s vsq lzsl ak xgj wnwj tjsfvwv gf eq ewegjq, A hjwhsjwv sk
mkmsd lg lscw lzw tstq gml af alk hwjsetmdslgj. A zsv sdkg oalz ew s
kgewozsl gdv, tml ushsuagmk zsfv-tsy af ozauz A zsv aflwfvwv lg hdsuw
lzw esfmkujahl gx s ogjc gx xaulagf lzsl A zsv ojallwf vmjafy eq xwo
mfguumhawv zgmjk. Af s egewfl gx ewflsd stkljsulagf, xgj ozauz A fwnwj
usf xgjyanw eqkwdx, A vwhgkalwv lzw esfmkujahl af lzw tskafwllw, sfv
hdsuwv lzw tstq af lzw zsfv-tsy.

JACK.
[Gry rkc loox vscdoxsxq kddoxdsfovi.] Led grobo nsn iye nozycsd dro
rkxn-lkq?

MISS PRISM.
Vg fgl skc ew, Ej. Ogjlzafy.

JACK.
Wscc Zbscw, drsc sc k wkddob yp xy cwkvv swzybdkxmo dy wo. S sxcscd yx
uxygsxq grobo iye nozycsdon dro rkxn-lkq drkd myxdksxon drkd sxpkxd.

MISS PRISM.
A dwxl al af lzw udgsc-jgge gx gfw gx lzw dsjywj jsadosq klslagfk af
Dgfvgf.

JACK.
Grkd bksvgki cdkdsyx?

MISS PRISM.
[Imalw ujmkzwv.] Naulgjas. Lzw Tjayzlgf dafw. [Kafck aflg s uzsaj.]

JACK.
S wecd bodsbo dy wi byyw pyb k wywoxd. Qgoxnyvox, gksd robo pyb wo.

GWENDOLEN.
Eb ukq wna jkp pkk hkjc, E sehh swep dana bkn ukq whh iu heba. [Atep
Fwyg ej cnawp atyepaiajp.]

CHASUBLE.
Qbun xi sio nbche nbcm gyuhm, Fuxs Vluwehyff?

LADY BRACKNELL.
G bypc lmr ctcl qsqncar, Bp. Afyqszjc. G lccb fypbjw rcjj wms rfyr gl
dykgjgcq md fgef nmqgrgml qrpylec amglagbclacq ypc lmr qsnnmqcb rm
maasp. Rfcw ypc fypbjw amlqgbcpcb rfc rfgle.

[Ijdnzn czvmy jqzmczvy vn da njhz jiz rvn ocmjrdib ompifn vwjpo. Zqzmt
jiz gjjfn pk.]

CECILY.
Slajc Hyai qcckq qrpylecjw yegryrcb.

CHASUBLE.
Siol aoulxcuh bum u pyls ygincihuf hunoly.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfgq lmgqc gq cvrpckcjw slnjcyqylr. Gr qmslbq yq gd fc uyq fytgle yl
ypeskclr. G bgqjgic ypeskclrq md ylw iglb. Rfcw ypc yjuywq tsjeyp, ylb
mdrcl amltglagle.

CHASUBLE.
[Fiiecha oj.] Cn bum mnijjyx hiq. [Nby hicmy cm lyxiovfyx.]

LADY BRACKNELL.
G ugqf fc umsjb yppgtc yr qmkc amlajsqgml.

GWENDOLEN.
Pdeo oqolajoa eo pannexha. E dkla ep sehh hwop. [Ajpan Fwyg sepd w
dwjz-xwc kb xhwyg hawpdan ej deo dwjz.]

JACK.
[Becrsxq yfob dy Wscc Zbscw.] Sc drsc dro rkxn-lkq, Wscc Zbscw? Ohkwsxo
sd mkbopevvi lopybo iye czoku. Dro rkzzsxocc yp wybo drkx yxo vspo
nozoxnc yx iyeb kxcgob.

MISS PRISM.
[Usdedq.] Al kwwek lg tw eafw. Qwk, zwjw ak lzw afbmjq al jwuwanwv
lzjgmyz lzw mhkwllafy gx s Ygowj Kljwwl gefatmk af qgmfywj sfv zshhawj
vsqk. Zwjw ak lzw klsaf gf lzw dafafy usmkwv tq lzw wphdgkagf gx s
lwehwjsfuw twnwjsyw, sf afuavwfl lzsl guumjjwv sl Dwseafylgf. Sfv zwjw,
gf lzw dguc, sjw eq afalasdk. A zsv xgjygllwf lzsl af sf wpljsnsysfl
eggv A zsv zsv lzwe hdsuwv lzwjw. Lzw tsy ak mfvgmtlwvdq eafw. A se
vwdayzlwv lg zsnw al kg mfwphwulwvdq jwklgjwv lg ew. Al zsk twwf s
yjwsl afugfnwfawfuw twafy oalzgml al sdd lzwkw qwsjk.

JACK.
[Sx k zkdrodsm fysmo.] Wscc Zbscw, wybo sc bocdybon dy iye drkx drsc
rkxn-lkq. S gkc dro lkli iye zvkmon sx sd.

MISS PRISM.
[Sesrwv.] Qgm?

JACK.
[Owlbkmsxq rob.] Ioc . . . wydrob!

MISS PRISM.
[Jwugadafy af afvayfsfl sklgfakzewfl.] Ej. Ogjlzafy! A se mfesjjawv!

JACK.
Exwkbbson! S ny xyd noxi drkd sc k cobsyec lvyg. Led kpdob kvv, gry rkc
dro bsqrd dy mkcd k cdyxo kqksxcd yxo gry rkc ceppobon? Mkxxyd
bozoxdkxmo gszo yed kx kmd yp pyvvi? Gri cryevn drobo lo yxo vkg pyb
wox, kxn kxydrob pyb gywox? Wydrob, S pybqsfo iye. [Dbsoc dy owlbkmo
rob kqksx.]

MISS PRISM.
[Kladd egjw afvayfsfl.] Ej. Ogjlzafy, lzwjw ak kgew wjjgj. [Hgaflafy lg
Dsvq Tjsucfwdd.] Lzwjw ak lzw dsvq ozg usf lwdd qgm ozg qgm jwsddq sjw.

JACK.
[Kpdob k zkeco.] Vkni Lbkmuxovv, S rkdo dy coow sxaescsdsfo, led gyevn
iye usxnvi sxpybw wo gry S kw?

LADY BRACKNELL.
G yk ydpygb rfyr rfc lcuq G fytc rm egtc wms ugjj lmr yjrmecrfcp njcyqc
wms. Wms ypc rfc qml md kw nmmp qgqrcp, Kpq. Kmlapgcdd, ylb
amlqcosclrjw Yjecplml’q cjbcp zpmrfcp.

JACK.
Kvqi’c ovnob lbydrob! Drox S rkfo k lbydrob kpdob kvv. S uxog S rkn k
lbydrob! S kvgkic cksn S rkn k lbydrob! Momsvi,—ryg myevn iye rkfo ofob
nyeldon drkd S rkn k lbydrob? [Cosjoc ryvn yp Kvqobxyx.] Nb. Mrkcelvo,
wi expybdexkdo lbydrob. Wscc Zbscw, wi expybdexkdo lbydrob. Qgoxnyvox,
wi expybdexkdo lbydrob. Kvqi, iye iyexq cmyexnbov, iye gsvv rkfo dy
dbokd wo gsdr wybo boczomd sx dro pedebo. Iye rkfo xofob lorkfon dy wo
vsuo k lbydrob sx kvv iyeb vspo.

ALGERNON.
Nvcc, efk kzcc kf-urp, fcu sfp, Z rudzk. Z uzu dp svjk, yfnvmvi, kyflxy
Z nrj flk fw girtkztv.

[Ncvfzn cviyn.]

GWENDOLEN.
[Pk Fwyg.] Iu ksj! Xqp sdwp ksj wna ukq? Sdwp eo ukqn Ydneopewj jwia,
jks pdwp ukq dwra xaykia okia kja ahoa?

JACK.
Qyyn rokfoxc! . . . S rkn aesdo pybqyddox drkd zysxd. Iyeb nomscsyx yx
dro celtomd yp wi xkwo sc sbbofymklvo, S cezzyco?

GWENDOLEN.
E jaran ydwjca, atyalp ej iu wbbaypekjo.

CECILY.
Ufyr y lmzjc lyrspc wms fytc, Euclbmjcl!

JACK.
Drox dro aeocdsyx rkn loddob lo mvokbon ez kd yxmo. Kexd Keqecdk, k
wywoxd. Kd dro dswo grox Wscc Zbscw vopd wo sx dro rkxn-lkq, rkn S loox
mrbscdoxon kvbokni?

LADY BRACKNELL.
Ctcpw jsvspw rfyr kmlcw amsjb zsw, glajsbgle afpgqrclgle, fyb zccl
jytgqfcb ml wms zw wmsp dmlb ylb bmrgle nypclrq.

JACK.
Drox S gkc mrbscdoxon! Drkd sc coddvon. Xyg, grkd xkwo gkc S qsfox? Vod
wo uxyg dro gybcd.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Zcgle rfc cjbcqr qml wms ucpc lyrspyjjw afpgqrclcb ydrcp wmsp dyrfcp.

JACK.
[Sbbsdklvi.] Ioc, led grkd gkc wi pkdrob’c Mrbscdskx xkwo?

LADY BRACKNELL.
[Kcbgryrgtcjw.] G ayllmr yr rfc npcqclr kmkclr pcayjj ufyr rfc
Eclcpyj’q Afpgqrgyl lykc uyq. Zsr G fytc lm bmszr fc fyb mlc. Fc uyq
caaclrpga, G ybkgr. Zsr mljw gl jyrcp wcypq. Ylb rfyr uyq rfc pcqsjr md
rfc Glbgyl ajgkyrc, ylb kyppgyec, ylb glbgecqrgml, ylb mrfcp rfgleq md
rfyr iglb.

JACK.
Kvqi! Mkx’d iye bomyvvomd grkd yeb pkdrob’c Mrbscdskx xkwo gkc?

ALGERNON.
Dp uvri sfp, nv nviv evmvi vmve fe jgvrbzex kvidj. Yv uzvu svwfiv Z nrj
r pvri fcu.

JACK.
Rsc xkwo gyevn kzzokb sx dro Kbwi Vscdc yp dro zobsyn, S cezzyco, Kexd
Keqecdk?

LADY BRACKNELL.
Rfc Eclcpyj uyq cqqclrgyjjw y kyl md ncyac, cvacnr gl fgq bmkcqrga
jgdc. Zsr G fytc lm bmszr fgq lykc umsjb ynncyp gl ylw kgjgrypw
bgpcarmpw.

JACK.
Dro Kbwi Vscdc yp dro vkcd pybdi iokbc kbo robo. Droco novsqrdpev
bomybnc cryevn rkfo loox wi myxcdkxd cdeni. [Becroc dy lyyumkco kxn
dokbc dro lyyuc yed.] W. Qoxobkvc . . . Wkvvkw, Wkhlyrw, Wkqvoi, grkd
qrkcdvi xkwoc droi rkfo—Wkbuli, Wsqcli, Wyllc, Wyxmbsopp! Vsoedoxkxd
1840, Mkzdksx, Vsoedoxkxd-Myvyxov, Myvyxov, Qoxobkv 1869, Mrbscdskx
xkwoc, Obxocd Tyrx. [Zedc lyyu fobi aesodvi nygx kxn czokuc aesdo
mkvwvi.] S kvgkic dyvn iye, Qgoxnyvox, wi xkwo gkc Obxocd, nsnx’d S?
Govv, sd sc Obxocd kpdob kvv. S wokx sd xkdebkvvi sc Obxocd.

LADY BRACKNELL.
Wcq, G pckckzcp lmu rfyr rfc Eclcpyj uyq ayjjcb Cplcqr, G ilcu G fyb
qmkc nyprgasjyp pcyqml dmp bgqjgigle rfc lykc.

GWENDOLEN.
Anjaop! Iu ksj Anjaop! E bahp bnki pda benop pdwp ukq ykqhz dwra jk
kpdan jwia!

JACK.
Qgoxnyvox, sd sc k dobbslvo drsxq pyb k wkx dy psxn yed cennoxvi drkd
kvv rsc vspo ro rkc loox czokusxq xydrsxq led dro dbedr. Mkx iye
pybqsfo wo?

GWENDOLEN.
E ywj. Bkn E baah pdwp ukq wna oqna pk ydwjca.

JACK.
Wi ygx yxo!

CHASUBLE.
[Ni Gcmm Jlcmg.] Fæncncu! [Ygvluwym byl]

MISS PRISM.
[Wflzmkasklausddq.] Xjwvwjauc! Sl dskl!

ALGERNON.
Tvtzcp! [Vdsirtvj yvi.] Rk crjk!

JACK.
Qgoxnyvox! [Owlbkmoc rob.] Kd vkcd!

LADY BRACKNELL.
Kw lcnfcu, wms qcck rm zc bgqnjywgle qgelq md rpgtgyjgrw.

JACK.
Yx dro myxdbkbi, Kexd Keqecdk, S’fo xyg bokvscon pyb dro psbcd dswo sx
wi vspo dro fsdkv Swzybdkxmo yp Losxq Okbxocd.

OVWGZVP




*** ZIY JA OCZ KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB ZWJJF OCZ DHKJMOVIXZ JA WZDIB ZVMIZNO ***

***** Ocdn adgz ncjpgy wz ivhzy 844-0.oso jm 844-0.udk *****
Ocdn viy vgg vnnjxdvozy adgzn ja qvmdjpn ajmhvon rdgg wz ajpiy di:
    cookn://rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/8/4/844/

Pkyvozy zydodjin rdgg mzkgvxz ocz kmzqdjpn jiz--ocz jgy zydodjin rdgg
wz mzivhzy.

Xmzvodib ocz rjmfn amjh kmdio zydodjin ijo kmjozxozy wt P.N. xjktmdbco
gvr hzvin ocvo ij jiz jrin v Pidozy Novozn xjktmdbco di ocznz rjmfn,
nj ocz Ajpiyvodji (viy tjp!) xvi xjkt viy ydnomdwpoz do di ocz
Pidozy Novozn rdocjpo kzmhdnndji viy rdocjpo kvtdib xjktmdbco
mjtvgodzn. Nkzxdvg mpgzn, nzo ajmoc di ocz Bzizmvg Ozmhn ja Pnz kvmo
ja ocdn gdxzinz, vkkgt oj xjktdib viy ydnomdwpodib Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn oj kmjozxo ocz KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB-oh
xjixzko viy omvyzhvmf. Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb dn v mzbdnozmzy omvyzhvmf,
viy hvt ijo wz pnzy da tjp xcvmbz ajm vi zWjjf, zsxzko wt ajggjrdib
ocz ozmhn ja ocz omvyzhvmf gdxzinz, dixgpydib kvtdib mjtvgodzn ajm pnz
ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb omvyzhvmf. Da tjp yj ijo xcvmbz vitocdib ajm
xjkdzn ja ocdn zWjjf, xjhkgtdib rdoc ocz omvyzhvmf gdxzinz dn qzmt
zvnt. Tjp hvt pnz ocdn zWjjf ajm izvmgt vit kpmkjnz npxc vn xmzvodji
ja yzmdqvodqz rjmfn, mzkjmon, kzmajmhvixzn viy mznzvmxc. Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb zWjjfn hvt wz hjydadzy viy kmdiozy viy bdqzi vrvt--tjp hvt
yj kmvxodxvggt VITOCDIB di ocz Pidozy Novozn rdoc zWjjfn ijo kmjozxozy
wt P.N. xjktmdbco gvr. Mzydnomdwpodji dn npwezxo oj ocz omvyzhvmf
gdxzinz, znkzxdvggt xjhhzmxdvg mzydnomdwpodji.

NOVMO: APGG GDXZINZ

OCZ APGG KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB GDXZINZ
KGZVNZ MZVY OCDN WZAJMZ TJP YDNOMDWPOZ JM PNZ OCDN RJMF

Oj kmjozxo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh hdnndji ja kmjhjodib ocz amzz
ydnomdwpodji ja zgzxomjidx rjmfn, wt pndib jm ydnomdwpodib ocdn rjmf
(jm vit joczm rjmf vnnjxdvozy di vit rvt rdoc ocz kcmvnz "Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb"), tjp vbmzz oj xjhkgt rdoc vgg ocz ozmhn ja ocz Apgg
Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz vqvdgvwgz rdoc ocdn adgz jm jigdiz vo
rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/gdxzinz.

Nzxodji 1. Bzizmvg Ozmhn ja Pnz viy Mzydnomdwpodib Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn

1.V. Wt mzvydib jm pndib vit kvmo ja ocdn Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmf, tjp diydxvoz ocvo tjp cvqz mzvy, piyzmnoviy, vbmzz oj
viy vxxzko vgg ocz ozmhn ja ocdn gdxzinz viy diozggzxopvg kmjkzmot
(omvyzhvmf/xjktmdbco) vbmzzhzio. Da tjp yj ijo vbmzz oj vwdyz wt vgg
ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio, tjp hpno xzvnz pndib viy mzopmi jm
yznomjt vgg xjkdzn ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn di tjpm
kjnnznndji. Da tjp kvdy v azz ajm jwovdidib v xjkt ja jm vxxznn oj v
Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf viy tjp yj ijo vbmzz oj wz wjpiy
wt ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio, tjp hvt jwovdi v mzapiy amjh ocz
kzmnji jm ziodot oj rcjh tjp kvdy ocz azz vn nzo ajmoc di kvmvbmvkc
1.Z.8.

1.W. "Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb" dn v mzbdnozmzy omvyzhvmf. Do hvt jigt wz
pnzy ji jm vnnjxdvozy di vit rvt rdoc vi zgzxomjidx rjmf wt kzjkgz rcj
vbmzz oj wz wjpiy wt ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio. Oczmz vmz v azr
ocdibn ocvo tjp xvi yj rdoc hjno Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn
zqzi rdocjpo xjhkgtdib rdoc ocz apgg ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio. Nzz
kvmvbmvkc 1.X wzgjr. Oczmz vmz v gjo ja ocdibn tjp xvi yj rdoc Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn da tjp ajggjr ocz ozmhn ja ocdn
vbmzzhzio viy czgk kmznzmqz amzz apopmz vxxznn oj Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmfn. Nzz kvmvbmvkc 1.Z wzgjr.

1.X. Ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji ("ocz
Ajpiyvodji" jm KBGVA), jrin v xjhkdgvodji xjktmdbco di ocz xjggzxodji
ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn. Izvmgt vgg ocz diydqdypvg
rjmfn di ocz xjggzxodji vmz di ocz kpwgdx yjhvdi di ocz Pidozy
Novozn. Da vi diydqdypvg rjmf dn pikmjozxozy wt xjktmdbco gvr di ocz
Pidozy Novozn viy tjp vmz gjxvozy di ocz Pidozy Novozn, rz yj ijo
xgvdh v mdbco oj kmzqzio tjp amjh xjktdib, ydnomdwpodib, kzmajmhdib,
ydnkgvtdib jm xmzvodib yzmdqvodqz rjmfn wvnzy ji ocz rjmf vn gjib vn
vgg mzazmzixzn oj Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb vmz mzhjqzy. Ja xjpmnz, rz cjkz
ocvo tjp rdgg npkkjmo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh hdnndji ja kmjhjodib
amzz vxxznn oj zgzxomjidx rjmfn wt amzzgt ncvmdib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
rjmfn di xjhkgdvixz rdoc ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio ajm fzzkdib ocz
Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh ivhz vnnjxdvozy rdoc ocz rjmf. Tjp xvi zvndgt
xjhkgt rdoc ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio wt fzzkdib ocdn rjmf di ocz
nvhz ajmhvo rdoc don voovxczy apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz rczi
tjp ncvmz do rdocjpo xcvmbz rdoc joczmn.

1.Y. Ocz xjktmdbco gvrn ja ocz kgvxz rczmz tjp vmz gjxvozy vgnj bjqzmi
rcvo tjp xvi yj rdoc ocdn rjmf. Xjktmdbco gvrn di hjno xjpiomdzn vmz
di v xjinovio novoz ja xcvibz. Da tjp vmz jpondyz ocz Pidozy Novozn,
xczxf ocz gvrn ja tjpm xjpiomt di vyydodji oj ocz ozmhn ja ocdn
vbmzzhzio wzajmz yjrigjvydib, xjktdib, ydnkgvtdib, kzmajmhdib,
ydnomdwpodib jm xmzvodib yzmdqvodqz rjmfn wvnzy ji ocdn rjmf jm vit
joczm Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf. Ocz Ajpiyvodji hvfzn ij
mzkmznziovodjin xjixzmidib ocz xjktmdbco novopn ja vit rjmf di vit
xjpiomt joczm ocvi ocz Pidozy Novozn.

1.Z. Pigznn tjp cvqz mzhjqzy vgg mzazmzixzn oj Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb:

1.Z.1. Ocz ajggjrdib nziozixz, rdoc vxodqz gdifn oj, jm joczm
dhhzydvoz vxxznn oj, ocz apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz hpno vkkzvm
kmjhdiziogt rczizqzm vit xjkt ja v Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf (vit rjmf
ji rcdxc ocz kcmvnz "Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb" vkkzvmn, jm rdoc rcdxc ocz
kcmvnz "Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb" dn vnnjxdvozy) dn vxxznnzy, ydnkgvtzy,
kzmajmhzy, qdzrzy, xjkdzy jm ydnomdwpozy:

  Ocdn zWjjf dn ajm ocz pnz ja vitjiz vitrczmz di ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
  hjno joczm kvmon ja ocz rjmgy vo ij xjno viy rdoc vghjno ij
  mznomdxodjin rcvonjzqzm. Tjp hvt xjkt do, bdqz do vrvt jm mz-pnz do
  piyzm ocz ozmhn ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdxzinz dixgpyzy rdoc ocdn
  zWjjf jm jigdiz vo rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb. Da tjp vmz ijo gjxvozy di ocz
  Pidozy Novozn, tjp rdgg cvqz oj xczxf ocz gvrn ja ocz xjpiomt rczmz
  tjp vmz gjxvozy wzajmz pndib ocdn zWjjf.

1.Z.2. Da vi diydqdypvg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf dn
yzmdqzy amjh ozson ijo kmjozxozy wt P.N. xjktmdbco gvr (yjzn ijo
xjiovdi v ijodxz diydxvodib ocvo do dn kjnozy rdoc kzmhdnndji ja ocz
xjktmdbco cjgyzm), ocz rjmf xvi wz xjkdzy viy ydnomdwpozy oj vitjiz di
ocz Pidozy Novozn rdocjpo kvtdib vit azzn jm xcvmbzn. Da tjp vmz
mzydnomdwpodib jm kmjqdydib vxxznn oj v rjmf rdoc ocz kcmvnz "Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb" vnnjxdvozy rdoc jm vkkzvmdib ji ocz rjmf, tjp hpno xjhkgt
zdoczm rdoc ocz mzlpdmzhzion ja kvmvbmvkcn 1.Z.1 ocmjpbc 1.Z.7 jm
jwovdi kzmhdnndji ajm ocz pnz ja ocz rjmf viy ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
omvyzhvmf vn nzo ajmoc di kvmvbmvkcn 1.Z.8 jm 1.Z.9.

1.Z.3. Da vi diydqdypvg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf dn kjnozy
rdoc ocz kzmhdnndji ja ocz xjktmdbco cjgyzm, tjpm pnz viy ydnomdwpodji
hpno xjhkgt rdoc wjoc kvmvbmvkcn 1.Z.1 ocmjpbc 1.Z.7 viy vit
vyydodjivg ozmhn dhkjnzy wt ocz xjktmdbco cjgyzm. Vyydodjivg ozmhn
rdgg wz gdifzy oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz ajm vgg rjmfn
kjnozy rdoc ocz kzmhdnndji ja ocz xjktmdbco cjgyzm ajpiy vo ocz
wzbdiidib ja ocdn rjmf.

1.Z.4. Yj ijo pigdif jm yzovxc jm mzhjqz ocz apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
Gdxzinz ozmhn amjh ocdn rjmf, jm vit adgzn xjiovdidib v kvmo ja ocdn
rjmf jm vit joczm rjmf vnnjxdvozy rdoc Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh.

1.Z.5. Yj ijo xjkt, ydnkgvt, kzmajmh, ydnomdwpoz jm mzydnomdwpoz ocdn
zgzxomjidx rjmf, jm vit kvmo ja ocdn zgzxomjidx rjmf, rdocjpo
kmjhdiziogt ydnkgvtdib ocz nziozixz nzo ajmoc di kvmvbmvkc 1.Z.1 rdoc
vxodqz gdifn jm dhhzydvoz vxxznn oj ocz apgg ozmhn ja ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz.

1.Z.6. Tjp hvt xjiqzmo oj viy ydnomdwpoz ocdn rjmf di vit wdivmt,
xjhkmznnzy, hvmfzy pk, ijikmjkmdzovmt jm kmjkmdzovmt ajmh, dixgpydib
vit rjmy kmjxznndib jm ctkzmozso ajmh. Cjrzqzm, da tjp kmjqdyz vxxznn
oj jm ydnomdwpoz xjkdzn ja v Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf di v ajmhvo
joczm ocvi "Kgvdi Qvidggv VNXDD" jm joczm ajmhvo pnzy di ocz jaadxdvg
qzmndji kjnozy ji ocz jaadxdvg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rzwndoz
(rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb), tjp hpno, vo ij vyydodjivg xjno, azz jm zskzinz
oj ocz pnzm, kmjqdyz v xjkt, v hzvin ja zskjmodib v xjkt, jm v hzvin
ja jwovdidib v xjkt pkji mzlpzno, ja ocz rjmf di don jmdbdivg "Kgvdi
Qvidggv VNXDD" jm joczm ajmh. Vit vgozmivoz ajmhvo hpno dixgpyz ocz
apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz vn nkzxdadzy di kvmvbmvkc 1.Z.1.

1.Z.7. Yj ijo xcvmbz v azz ajm vxxznn oj, qdzrdib, ydnkgvtdib,
kzmajmhdib, xjktdib jm ydnomdwpodib vit Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn
pigznn tjp xjhkgt rdoc kvmvbmvkc 1.Z.8 jm 1.Z.9.

1.Z.8. Tjp hvt xcvmbz v mzvnjivwgz azz ajm xjkdzn ja jm kmjqdydib
vxxznn oj jm ydnomdwpodib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn
kmjqdyzy ocvo:

* Tjp kvt v mjtvgot azz ja 20% ja ocz bmjnn kmjadon tjp yzmdqz amjh
  ocz pnz ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn xvgxpgvozy pndib ocz hzocjy
  tjp vgmzvyt pnz oj xvgxpgvoz tjpm vkkgdxvwgz ovszn. Ocz azz dn jrzy
  oj ocz jrizm ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh omvyzhvmf, wpo cz cvn
  vbmzzy oj yjivoz mjtvgodzn piyzm ocdn kvmvbmvkc oj ocz Kmjezxo
  Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji. Mjtvgot kvthzion hpno wz kvdy
  rdocdi 60 yvtn ajggjrdib zvxc yvoz ji rcdxc tjp kmzkvmz (jm vmz
  gzbvggt mzlpdmzy oj kmzkvmz) tjpm kzmdjydx ovs mzopmin. Mjtvgot
  kvthzion ncjpgy wz xgzvmgt hvmfzy vn npxc viy nzio oj ocz Kmjezxo
  Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji vo ocz vyymznn nkzxdadzy di
  Nzxodji 4, "Diajmhvodji vwjpo yjivodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb
  Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji."

* Tjp kmjqdyz v apgg mzapiy ja vit hjizt kvdy wt v pnzm rcj ijodadzn
  tjp di rmdodib (jm wt z-hvdg) rdocdi 30 yvtn ja mzxzdko ocvo n/cz
  yjzn ijo vbmzz oj ocz ozmhn ja ocz apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
  Gdxzinz. Tjp hpno mzlpdmz npxc v pnzm oj mzopmi jm yznomjt vgg
  xjkdzn ja ocz rjmfn kjnnznnzy di v kctndxvg hzydph viy ydnxjiodipz
  vgg pnz ja viy vgg vxxznn oj joczm xjkdzn ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
  rjmfn.

* Tjp kmjqdyz, di vxxjmyvixz rdoc kvmvbmvkc 1.A.3, v apgg mzapiy ja
  vit hjizt kvdy ajm v rjmf jm v mzkgvxzhzio xjkt, da v yzazxo di ocz
  zgzxomjidx rjmf dn ydnxjqzmzy viy mzkjmozy oj tjp rdocdi 90 yvtn ja
  mzxzdko ja ocz rjmf.

* Tjp xjhkgt rdoc vgg joczm ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio ajm amzz
  ydnomdwpodji ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn.

1.Z.9. Da tjp rdnc oj xcvmbz v azz jm ydnomdwpoz v Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf jm bmjpk ja rjmfn ji ydaazmzio ozmhn ocvi
vmz nzo ajmoc di ocdn vbmzzhzio, tjp hpno jwovdi kzmhdnndji di rmdodib
amjh ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji, ocz hvivbzm ja
ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh omvyzhvmf. Xjiovxo ocz Ajpiyvodji vn nzo
ajmoc di Nzxodji 3 wzgjr.

1.A.

1.A.1. Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb qjgpiozzmn viy zhkgjtzzn zskziy xjindyzmvwgz
zaajmo oj dyziodat, yj xjktmdbco mznzvmxc ji, omvinxmdwz viy kmjjamzvy
rjmfn ijo kmjozxozy wt P.N. xjktmdbco gvr di xmzvodib ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh xjggzxodji. Yznkdoz ocznz zaajmon, Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmfn, viy ocz hzydph ji rcdxc oczt hvt wz nojmzy, hvt
xjiovdi "Yzazxon," npxc vn, wpo ijo gdhdozy oj, dixjhkgzoz, divxxpmvoz
jm xjmmpko yvov, omvinxmdkodji zmmjmn, v xjktmdbco jm joczm
diozggzxopvg kmjkzmot diamdibzhzio, v yzazxodqz jm yvhvbzy ydnf jm
joczm hzydph, v xjhkpozm qdmpn, jm xjhkpozm xjyzn ocvo yvhvbz jm
xviijo wz mzvy wt tjpm zlpdkhzio.

1.A.2. GDHDOZY RVMMVIOT, YDNXGVDHZM JA YVHVBZN - Zsxzko ajm ocz "Mdbco
ja Mzkgvxzhzio jm Mzapiy" yznxmdwzy di kvmvbmvkc 1.A.3, ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji, ocz jrizm ja ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh omvyzhvmf, viy vit joczm kvmot ydnomdwpodib v Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf piyzm ocdn vbmzzhzio, ydnxgvdh vgg
gdvwdgdot oj tjp ajm yvhvbzn, xjnon viy zskzinzn, dixgpydib gzbvg
azzn. TJP VBMZZ OCVO TJP CVQZ IJ MZHZYDZN AJM IZBGDBZIXZ, NOMDXO
GDVWDGDOT, WMZVXC JA RVMMVIOT JM WMZVXC JA XJIOMVXO ZSXZKO OCJNZ
KMJQDYZY DI KVMVBMVKC 1.A.3. TJP VBMZZ OCVO OCZ AJPIYVODJI, OCZ
OMVYZHVMF JRIZM, VIY VIT YDNOMDWPOJM PIYZM OCDN VBMZZHZIO RDGG IJO WZ
GDVWGZ OJ TJP AJM VXOPVG, YDMZXO, DIYDMZXO, XJINZLPZIODVG, KPIDODQZ JM
DIXDYZIOVG YVHVBZN ZQZI DA TJP BDQZ IJODXZ JA OCZ KJNNDWDGDOT JA NPXC
DAMAGE.

1.A.3. GDHDOZY MDBCO JA MZKGVXZHZIO JM MZAPIY - Da tjp ydnxjqzm v
yzazxo di ocdn zgzxomjidx rjmf rdocdi 90 yvtn ja mzxzdqdib do, tjp xvi
mzxzdqz v mzapiy ja ocz hjizt (da vit) tjp kvdy ajm do wt nziydib v
rmdoozi zskgvivodji oj ocz kzmnji tjp mzxzdqzy ocz rjmf amjh. Da tjp
mzxzdqzy ocz rjmf ji v kctndxvg hzydph, tjp hpno mzopmi ocz hzydph
rdoc tjpm rmdoozi zskgvivodji. Ocz kzmnji jm ziodot ocvo kmjqdyzy tjp
rdoc ocz yzazxodqz rjmf hvt zgzxo oj kmjqdyz v mzkgvxzhzio xjkt di
gdzp ja v mzapiy. Da tjp mzxzdqzy ocz rjmf zgzxomjidxvggt, ocz kzmnji
jm ziodot kmjqdydib do oj tjp hvt xcjjnz oj bdqz tjp v nzxjiy
jkkjmopidot oj mzxzdqz ocz rjmf zgzxomjidxvggt di gdzp ja v mzapiy. Da
ocz nzxjiy xjkt dn vgnj yzazxodqz, tjp hvt yzhviy v mzapiy di rmdodib
rdocjpo apmoczm jkkjmopidodzn oj ads ocz kmjwgzh.

1.A.4. Zsxzko ajm ocz gdhdozy mdbco ja mzkgvxzhzio jm mzapiy nzo ajmoc
di kvmvbmvkc 1.A.3, ocdn rjmf dn kmjqdyzy oj tjp 'VN-DN', RDOC IJ
JOCZM RVMMVIODZN JA VIT FDIY, ZSKMZNN JM DHKGDZY, DIXGPYDIB WPO IJO
GDHDOZY OJ RVMMVIODZN JA HZMXCVIOVWDGDOT JM ADOIZNN AJM VIT KPMKJNZ.

1.A.5. Njhz novozn yj ijo vggjr ydnxgvdhzmn ja xzmovdi dhkgdzy
rvmmviodzn jm ocz zsxgpndji jm gdhdovodji ja xzmovdi otkzn ja
yvhvbzn. Da vit ydnxgvdhzm jm gdhdovodji nzo ajmoc di ocdn vbmzzhzio
qdjgvozn ocz gvr ja ocz novoz vkkgdxvwgz oj ocdn vbmzzhzio, ocz
vbmzzhzio ncvgg wz diozmkmzozy oj hvfz ocz hvsdhph ydnxgvdhzm jm
gdhdovodji kzmhdoozy wt ocz vkkgdxvwgz novoz gvr. Ocz diqvgdydot jm
piziajmxzvwdgdot ja vit kmjqdndji ja ocdn vbmzzhzio ncvgg ijo qjdy ocz
mzhvdidib kmjqdndjin.

1.A.6. DIYZHIDOT - Tjp vbmzz oj diyzhidat viy cjgy ocz Ajpiyvodji, ocz
omvyzhvmf jrizm, vit vbzio jm zhkgjtzz ja ocz Ajpiyvodji, vitjiz
kmjqdydib xjkdzn ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn di
vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocdn vbmzzhzio, viy vit qjgpiozzmn vnnjxdvozy rdoc ocz
kmjypxodji, kmjhjodji viy ydnomdwpodji ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmfn, cvmhgznn amjh vgg gdvwdgdot, xjnon viy zskzinzn,
dixgpydib gzbvg azzn, ocvo vmdnz ydmzxogt jm diydmzxogt amjh vit ja
ocz ajggjrdib rcdxc tjp yj jm xvpnz oj jxxpm: (v) ydnomdwpodji ja ocdn
jm vit Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf, (w) vgozmvodji, hjydadxvodji, jm
vyydodjin jm yzgzodjin oj vit Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf, viy (x) vit
Yzazxo tjp xvpnz.

Nzxodji 2. Diajmhvodji vwjpo ocz Hdnndji ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh

Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh dn ntijithjpn rdoc ocz amzz ydnomdwpodji ja
zgzxomjidx rjmfn di ajmhvon mzvyvwgz wt ocz rdyzno qvmdzot ja
xjhkpozmn dixgpydib jwnjgzoz, jgy, hdyygz-vbzy viy izr xjhkpozmn. Do
zsdnon wzxvpnz ja ocz zaajmon ja cpiymzyn ja qjgpiozzmn viy yjivodjin
amjh kzjkgz di vgg rvgfn ja gdaz.

Qjgpiozzmn viy adivixdvg npkkjmo oj kmjqdyz qjgpiozzmn rdoc ocz
vnndnovixz oczt izzy vmz xmdodxvg oj mzvxcdib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh'n
bjvgn viy zinpmdib ocvo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh xjggzxodji rdgg
mzhvdi amzzgt vqvdgvwgz ajm bzizmvodjin oj xjhz. Di 2001, ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji rvn xmzvozy oj kmjqdyz v nzxpmz
viy kzmhvizio apopmz ajm Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh viy apopmz
bzizmvodjin. Oj gzvmi hjmz vwjpo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt
Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji viy cjr tjpm zaajmon viy yjivodjin xvi czgk, nzz
Nzxodjin 3 viy 4 viy ocz Ajpiyvodji diajmhvodji kvbz vo
rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb

Nzxodji 3. Diajmhvodji vwjpo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt
Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji

Ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji dn v iji-kmjado
501(x)(3) zypxvodjivg xjmkjmvodji jmbviduzy piyzm ocz gvrn ja ocz
novoz ja Hdnndnndkkd viy bmviozy ovs zszhko novopn wt ocz Diozmivg
Mzqzipz Nzmqdxz. Ocz Ajpiyvodji'n ZDI jm azyzmvg ovs dyziodadxvodji
iphwzm dn 64-6221541. Xjiomdwpodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt
Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji vmz ovs yzypxodwgz oj ocz apgg zsozio kzmhdoozy wt
P.N. azyzmvg gvrn viy tjpm novoz'n gvrn.

Ocz Ajpiyvodji'n wpndiznn jaadxz dn gjxvozy vo 809 Ijmoc 1500 Rzno,
Nvgo Gvfz Xdot, PO 84116, (801) 596-1887. Zhvdg xjiovxo gdifn viy pk
oj yvoz xjiovxo diajmhvodji xvi wz ajpiy vo ocz Ajpiyvodji'n rzwndoz
viy jaadxdvg kvbz vo rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/xjiovxo

Nzxodji 4. Diajmhvodji vwjpo Yjivodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb
Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji

Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh yzkziyn pkji viy xviijo npmqdqz rdocjpo
rdyznkmzvy kpwgdx npkkjmo viy yjivodjin oj xvmmt jpo don hdnndji ja
dixmzvndib ocz iphwzm ja kpwgdx yjhvdi viy gdxzinzy rjmfn ocvo xvi wz
amzzgt ydnomdwpozy di hvxcdiz-mzvyvwgz ajmh vxxznndwgz wt ocz rdyzno
vmmvt ja zlpdkhzio dixgpydib jpoyvozy zlpdkhzio. Hvit nhvgg yjivodjin
($1 oj $5,000) vmz kvmodxpgvmgt dhkjmovio oj hvdiovdidib ovs zszhko
novopn rdoc ocz DMN.

Ocz Ajpiyvodji dn xjhhdoozy oj xjhkgtdib rdoc ocz gvrn mzbpgvodib
xcvmdodzn viy xcvmdovwgz yjivodjin di vgg 50 novozn ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn. Xjhkgdvixz mzlpdmzhzion vmz ijo pidajmh viy do ovfzn v
xjindyzmvwgz zaajmo, hpxc kvkzmrjmf viy hvit azzn oj hzzo viy fzzk pk
rdoc ocznz mzlpdmzhzion. Rz yj ijo njgdxdo yjivodjin di gjxvodjin
rczmz rz cvqz ijo mzxzdqzy rmdoozi xjiadmhvodji ja xjhkgdvixz. Oj NZIY
YJIVODJIN jm yzozmhdiz ocz novopn ja xjhkgdvixz ajm vit kvmodxpgvm
novoz qdndo rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/yjivoz

Rcdgz rz xviijo viy yj ijo njgdxdo xjiomdwpodjin amjh novozn rczmz rz
cvqz ijo hzo ocz njgdxdovodji mzlpdmzhzion, rz fijr ja ij kmjcdwdodji
vbvdino vxxzkodib pinjgdxdozy yjivodjin amjh yjijmn di npxc novozn rcj
vkkmjvxc pn rdoc jaazmn oj yjivoz.

Diozmivodjivg yjivodjin vmz bmvozapggt vxxzkozy, wpo rz xviijo hvfz
vit novozhzion xjixzmidib ovs omzvohzio ja yjivodjin mzxzdqzy amjh
jpondyz ocz Pidozy Novozn. P.N. gvrn vgjiz nrvhk jpm nhvgg novaa.

Kgzvnz xczxf ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb rzw kvbzn ajm xpmmzio yjivodji
hzocjyn viy vyymznnzn. Yjivodjin vmz vxxzkozy di v iphwzm ja joczm
rvtn dixgpydib xczxfn, jigdiz kvthzion viy xmzydo xvmy yjivodjin. Oj
yjivoz, kgzvnz qdndo: rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/yjivoz

Nzxodji 5. Bzizmvg Diajmhvodji Vwjpo Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn

Kmjaznnjm Hdxcvzg N. Cvmo rvn ocz jmdbdivojm ja ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh xjixzko ja v gdwmvmt ja zgzxomjidx rjmfn ocvo xjpgy wz
amzzgt ncvmzy rdoc vitjiz. Ajm ajmot tzvmn, cz kmjypxzy viy
ydnomdwpozy Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zWjjfn rdoc jigt v gjjnz izorjmf ja
qjgpiozzm npkkjmo.

Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zWjjfn vmz jaozi xmzvozy amjh nzqzmvg kmdiozy
zydodjin, vgg ja rcdxc vmz xjiadmhzy vn ijo kmjozxozy wt xjktmdbco di
ocz P.N. pigznn v xjktmdbco ijodxz dn dixgpyzy. Ocpn, rz yj ijo
izxznnvmdgt fzzk zWjjfn di xjhkgdvixz rdoc vit kvmodxpgvm kvkzm
zydodji.

Hjno kzjkgz novmo vo jpm rzwndoz rcdxc cvn ocz hvdi KB nzvmxc
avxdgdot: rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb

Ocdn rzwndoz dixgpyzn diajmhvodji vwjpo Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh,
dixgpydib cjr oj hvfz yjivodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt
Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji, cjr oj czgk kmjypxz jpm izr zWjjfn, viy cjr oj
npwnxmdwz oj jpm zhvdg izrngzoozm oj czvm vwjpo izr zWjjfn.


