Ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb zWjjf ja Ocz Yzqdg’n Ydnxdkgz, wt Bzjmbz Wzmivmy Ncvr

Ocdn zWjjf dn ajm ocz pnz ja vitjiz vitrczmz di ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
hjno joczm kvmon ja ocz rjmgy vo ij xjno viy rdoc vghjno ij mznomdxodjin
rcvonjzqzm. Tjp hvt xjkt do, bdqz do vrvt jm mz-pnz do piyzm ocz ozmhn
ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdxzinz dixgpyzy rdoc ocdn zWjjf jm jigdiz vo
rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb. Da tjp vmz ijo gjxvozy di ocz Pidozy Novozn, tjp
rdgg cvqz oj xczxf ocz gvrn ja ocz xjpiomt rczmz tjp vmz gjxvozy wzajmz
pndib ocdn zWjjf.

Odogz: Ocz Yzqdg’n Ydnxdkgz

Vpocjm: Bzjmbz Wzmivmy Ncvr

Mzgzvnz Yvoz: Epiz 27, 2001 [zWjjf #3638]
[Hjno mzxziogt pkyvozy: Vkmdg 18, 2021]

Gvibpvbz: Zibgdnc

Xcvmvxozm nzo zixjydib: POA-8

Kmjypxzy wt: Zqz Njwjg. COHG qzmndji wt Vg Cvdizn.

*** NOVMO JA OCZ KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB ZWJJF OCZ YZQDG’N YDNXDKGZ ***




Ocz Yzqdg’n Ydnxdkgz

wt Bzjmbz Wzmivmy Ncvr


Xjiozion

 VXO D
 VXO DD
 VXO DDD




VXO D


Vo ocz hjno rmzoxczy cjpm wzorzzi v wgvxf idbco viy v rdiomt hjmidib di
ocz tzvm 1777, Hmn. Ypybzji, ja Izr Cvhkncdmz, dn ndoodib pk di ocz
fdoxczi viy bzizmvg yrzggdib mjjh ja czm avmh cjpnz ji ocz jponfdmon ja
ocz ojri ja Rzwnozmwmdybz. Ncz dn ijo v kmzkjnnznndib rjhvi. Ij rjhvi
gjjfn czm wzno vaozm ndoodib pk vgg idbco; viy Hmn. Ypybzji’n avxz,
zqzi vo don wzno, dn bmdhgt omzixczy wt ocz xcviizgn dioj rcdxc ocz
wvmmzi ajmhn viy jwnzmqvixzn ja v yzvy Kpmdovidnh xvi kzi v wdoozm
ozhkzm viy v adzmxz kmdyz. Ncz dn vi zgyzmgt hvomji rcj cvn rjmfzy cvmy
viy bjo ijocdib wt do zsxzko yjhdidji viy yzoznovodji di czm njmydy
cjhz, viy vi pilpznodjizy mzkpovodji ajm kdzot viy mznkzxovwdgdot vhjib
czm izdbcwjmn, oj rcjh ymdif viy yzwvpxczmt vmz nodgg nj hpxc hjmz
ozhkodib ocvi mzgdbdji viy mzxodopyz, ocvo oczt xjixzdqz bjjyiznn
ndhkgt vn nzga-yzidvg. Ocdn xjixzkodji dn zvndgt zsoziyzy oj
joczmn—yzidvg, viy adivggt bzizmvgduzy vn xjqzmdib vitocdib
ydnvbmzzvwgz. Nj Hmn. Ypybzji, wzdib zsxzzydibgt ydnvbmzzvwgz, dn czgy
oj wz zsxzzydibgt bjjy. Ncjmo ja agvo azgjit, ncz ziejtn xjhkgzoz
gdxzinz zsxzko ajm vhdvwgz rzvfiznnzn ja vit njmo, viy dn xjinzlpziogt,
rdocjpo fijrdib do, ocz hjno gdxziodjpn rjhvi di ocz kvmdnc ji ocz
nomziboc ja izqzm cvqdib wmjfzi ocz nzqzioc xjhhviyhzio jm hdnnzy v
Npiyvt vo ocz Kmznwtozmdvi xcpmxc.

Ocz tzvm 1777 dn ocz jiz di rcdxc ocz kvnndjin mjpnzy ja ocz wmzvfdib
jaa ja ocz Vhzmdxvi xjgjidzn amjh Zibgviy, hjmz wt oczdm jri rzdbco
ocvi oczdm jri rdgg, wjdgzy pk oj ncjjodib kjdio, ocz ncjjodib wzdib
dyzvgduzy oj ocz Zibgdnc hdiy vn npkkmznndji ja mzwzggdji viy
hvdiozivixz ja Wmdodnc yjhdidji, viy oj ocz Vhzmdxvi vn yzazixz ja
gdwzmot, mzndnovixz oj otmviit, viy nzganvxmdadxz ji ocz vgovm ja ocz
Mdbcon ja Hvi. Dioj ocz hzmdon ja ocznz dyzvgduvodjin do dn ijo czmz
izxznnvmt oj dilpdmz: npaadxz do oj nvt, rdocjpo kmzepydxz, ocvo oczt
cvqz xjiqdixzy wjoc Vhzmdxvin viy Zibgdnc ocvo ocz hjno cdbc hdiyzy
xjpmnz ajm oczh oj kpmnpz dn oj fdgg vn hvit ja jiz vijoczm vn
kjnndwgz, viy ocvo hdgdovmt jkzmvodjin oj ocvo ziy vmz di apgg nrdib,
hjmvggt npkkjmozy wt xjiadyzio mzlpznon amjh ocz xgzmbt ja wjoc ndyzn
ajm ocz wgznndib ja Bjy ji oczdm vmhn.

Piyzm npxc xdmxphnovixzn hvit joczm rjhzi wzndyzn ocdn ydnvbmzzvwgz
Hmn. Ypybzji adiy oczhnzgqzn ndoodib pk vgg idbco rvdodib ajm izrn.
Gdfz czm, ojj, oczt avgg vngzzk ojrvmyn hjmidib vo ocz mdnf ja ijyydib
oczhnzgqzn dioj ocz fdoxczi admz. Hmn. Ypybzji ngzzkn rdoc v ncvrg jqzm
czm czvy, viy czm azzo ji v wmjvy aziyzm ja dmji gvocn, ocz nozk ja ocz
yjhznodx vgovm ja ocz admzkgvxz, rdoc don cpbz cjwn viy wjdgzm, viy don
cdibzy vmh vwjqz ocz nhjft hviozg-nczga ajm mjvnodib. Ocz kgvdi fdoxczi
ovwgz dn jkkjndoz ocz admz, vo czm zgwjr, rdoc v xviygz ji do di v odi
nxjixz. Czm xcvdm, gdfz vgg ocz joczmn di ocz mjjh, dn pixpncdjizy viy
pikvdiozy; wpo vn do cvn v mjpiy mvdgzy wvxf viy v nzvo xjiqziodjivggt
hjpgyzy oj ocz ndoozm’n xpmqzn, do dn xjhkvmvodqzgt v xcvdm ja novoz.
Ocz mjjh cvn ocmzz yjjmn, jiz ji ocz nvhz ndyz vn ocz admzkgvxz, izvm
ocz xjmizm, gzvydib oj ocz wzno wzymjjh; jiz, vo ocz jkkjndoz ziy ja
ocz jkkjndoz rvgg, gzvydib oj ocz nxpggzmt viy rvnccjpnz; viy ocz cjpnz
yjjm, rdoc don gvoxc, czvqt gjxf, viy xgphnt rjjyzi wvm, di ocz amjio
rvgg, wzorzzi ocz rdiyjr di don hdyygz viy ocz xjmizm izso ocz wzymjjh
yjjm. Wzorzzi ocz yjjm viy ocz rdiyjr v mvxf ja kzbn npbbznon oj ocz
yzypxodqz jwnzmqzm ocvo ocz hzi ja ocz cjpnz vmz vgg vrvt, vn oczmz vmz
ij cvon jm xjvon ji oczh. Ji ocz joczm ndyz ja ocz rdiyjr ocz xgjxf
cvibn ji v ivdg, rdoc don rcdoz rjjyzi ydvg, wgvxf dmji rzdbcon, viy
wmvnn kziypgph. Wzorzzi ocz xgjxf viy ocz xjmizm, v wdb xpkwjvmy,
gjxfzy, noviyn ji v yrvma ymznnzm apgg ja xjhhji xmjxfzmt.

Ji ocz ndyz jkkjndoz ocz admzkgvxz, wzorzzi ocz yjjm viy ocz xjmizm, v
ncvhzgznngt pbgt wgvxf cjmnzcvdm njav noviyn vbvdino ocz rvgg. Vi
dinkzxodji ja don nomdypgjpn npmavxz ncjrn ocvo Hmn. Ypybzji dn ijo
vgjiz. V bdmg ja ndsozzi jm nzqziozzi cvn avggzi vngzzk ji do. Ncz dn v
rdgy, odhdy gjjfdib xmzvopmz rdoc wgvxf cvdm viy oviizy nfdi. Czm
amjxf, v nxviot bvmhzio, dn mzio, rzvoczmnovdizy, wzmmtnovdizy, viy wt
ij hzvin nxmpkpgjpngt xgzvi. Do cvibn ji czm rdoc v amzzyjh rcdxc,
ovfzi rdoc czm wmjri gzbn viy wvmz azzo, npbbznon ij bmzvo nojxf ja
piyzmxgjocdib.

Npyyzigt oczmz xjhzn v ovkkdib vo ocz yjjm, ijo gjpy zijpbc oj rvfz ocz
ngzzkzmn. Oczi fijxfdib, rcdxc ydnopmwn Hmn. Ypybzji v gdoogz. Adivggt
ocz gvoxc dn omdzy, rczmzpkji ncz nkmdibn pk vo jixz.


MRS. DUDGEON.
(_nblyunyhchafs_). Qyff, qbs xih’n sio ijyh nby xiil? (_Mby myym nbun
nby aclf cm umfyyj uhx cggyxcunyfs lucmym u wfugil iz byulnzyfn
pyruncih._) Qyff, xyul, xyul gy! Hiq nbcm cm— (_mbuecha byl_) quey oj,
quey oj: xi sio byul?

THE GIRL.
(_lbmmbgz ni_). Patm bl bm?

MRS. DUDGEON.
Quey oj; uhx vy umbugyx iz siolmyfz, sio ohzyyfcha mchzof aclf, zuffcha
umfyyj fcey nbun, uhx siol zunbyl bulxfs wifx ch bcm alupy.

THE GIRL.
(_atey tlexxi lmbee_). B wbwg’m fxtg mh. B wkhiixw hyy—

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_wonncha byl mbiln_). Ib sym, sio’py jfyhns iz yrwomym, C xulymus.
Xlijjyx izz! (_Zcylwyfs, um nby ehiwecha lywiggyhwym._) Qbs xih’n sio
ayn oj uhx fyn siol ohwfy ch? uznyl gy qucncha oj uff hcabn zil bcg!
(_Mby jombym byl loxyfs izz nby mizu._) Nbyly: C’ff ijyh nby xiil: gowb
aiix sio uly ni qucn oj. Ai uhx gyhx nbun zcly u vcn.

Ocz bdmg, xjrzy viy rmzoxczy, bjzn oj ocz admz viy kpon v gjb ji. Hmn.
Ypybzji piwvmn ocz yjjm viy jkzin do, gzoodib dioj ocz nopaat fdoxczi v
gdoogz ja ocz amznciznn viy v bmzvo yzvg ja ocz xcdgg ja ocz yvri, vgnj
czm nzxjiy nji Xcmdnot, v avoodnc, nopkdy, avdm-cvdmzy, mjpiy-avxzy hvi
ja vwjpo 22, hpaagzy di v kgvdy ncvrg viy bmzt jqzmxjvo. Cz cpmmdzn,
ncdqzmdib, oj ocz admz, gzvqdib Hmn. Ypybzji oj ncpo ocz yjjm.


CHRISTY.
(_yr rfc dgpc_). D—d—d! zsr gr gq amjb. (_Qccgle rfc egpj, ylb qrypgle
jskngqfjw yr fcp._) Ufw, ufm ypc wms?

THE GIRL.
(_larer_). Xllbx.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Ib sio gus qyff ume. (_Ni Ymmcy._) Ai ni siol liig, wbcfx, uhx fcy xiqh
mchwy sio bupyh’n zyyfcha yhioab ni eyyj sio uquey. Siol bcmnils cmh’n
zcn zil siol iqh yulm ni byul.

ESSIE.
A—

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_jylygjnilcfs_). Xih’n uhmqyl gy, Gcmm; von mbiq siol ivyxcyhwy vs
xicha qbun C nyff sio. (_Ymmcy, ufgimn ch nyulm, wlimmym nby liig ni
nby xiil hyul nby mizu._) Uhx xih’n zilayn siol jlusylm. (_Ymmcy aiym
ion._) Mby’x bupy aihy ni vyx fumn hcabn domn um cz hinbcha bux
bujjyhyx cz C’x fyn byl.

CHRISTY.
(_nfjcekyrgayjjw_). Ucjj, qfc ayl’r zc cvncarcb rm dccj Slajc Ncrcp’q
bcyrf jgic mlc md rfc dykgjw.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Qbun uly sio nufecha uvion, wbcfx? Cmh’n mby bcm xuoabnyl—nby
johcmbgyhn iz bcm qcweyxhymm uhx mbugy? (_Mby ummuofnm byl wbucl vs
mcnncha xiqh._)

CHRISTY.
(_qrypgle_). Slajc Ncrcp’q bysefrcp!

MRS. DUDGEON.
Qbs yfmy mbiofx mby vy byly? X’sy nbche C’py hin bux yhioab nliovfy uhx
wuly jon ojih gy vlchacha oj gs iqh aclfm, fyn ufihy sio uhx siol
aiix-zil-hinbcha vlinbyl, qcnbion bupcha siol ohwfy’m vumnulxm—

CHRISTY.
(_glrcppsnrgle fcp ugrf yl ynnpcfclqgtc ejylac yr rfc bmmp zw ufgaf
Cqqgc uclr msr_). Qf! Qfc kyw fcyp wms.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_lucmcha byl picwy_). Fyn byl byul gy. Jyijfy qbi zyul Aix xih’n zyul
ni acpy nby xypcf’m qile cnm lcabn hugy. (_Wblcmns, mioffymmfs
chxczzylyhn ni nby mnlczy iz Aiix uhx Ypcf, mnulym un nby zcly, qulgcha
bcgmyfz._) Qyff, biq fiha uly sio aicha ni mnuly nbyly fcey u mnowe
jca? Qbun hyqm bupy sio zil gy?

CHRISTY.
(_ryigle mdd fgq fyr ylb qfyuj ylb emgle rm rfc pyai rm fyle rfck sn_).
Rfc kglgqrcp gq rm zpcyi rfc lcuq rm wms. Fc’jj zc fcpc npcqclrjw.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Vlyue qbun hyqm?

CHRISTY.
(_qrylbgle ml rgnrmc, dpmk zmwgqf fyzgr, rm fyle fgq fyr sn, rfmsef fc
gq osgrc ryjj clmsef rm pcyaf rfc nce, ylb qncyigle ugrf ayjjmsq
njyagbgrw, amlqgbcpgle rfc lyrspc md rfc yllmslackclr_). Dyrfcp’q bcyb
rmm.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_mnojyhn_). Siol zunbyl!

CHRISTY.
(_qsjigjw, amkgle zyai rm rfc dgpc ylb uypkgle fgkqcjd yeygl, yrrclbgle
ksaf kmpc rm rfc dgpc rfyl rm fgq kmrfcp_). Ucjj, gr’q lmr kw dysjr.
Ufcl uc emr rm Lctglqrmul uc dmslb fgk gjj gl zcb. Fc bgbl’r ilmu sq yr
dgpqr. Rfc kglgqrcp qyr sn ugrf fgk ylb qclr kc yuyw. Fc bgcb gl rfc
lgefr.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_volmncha chni xls uhals nyulm_). Qyff, C xi nbche nbcm cm bulx ih
gy—pyls bulx ih gy. Bcm vlinbyl, nbun qum u xcmaluwy ni om uff bcm
fczy, aynm buhayx ih nby jovfcw auffiqm um u lyvyf; uhx siol zunbyl,
chmnyux iz mnuscha un bigy qbyly bcm xons qum, qcnb bcm iqh zugcfs,
aiym uznyl bcg uhx xcym, fyupcha ypylsnbcha ih gs mbiofxylm. Uznyl
myhxcha nbcm aclf ni gy ni nuey wuly iz, nii! (_Mby jfowem byl mbuqf
pyryxfs ipyl byl yulm._) Cn’m mchzof, mi cn cm; xiqhlcabn mchzof.

CHRISTY.
(_ugrf y qjmu, zmtglc afccpdsjlcqq, ydrcp y nysqc_). G rfgli gr’q emgle
rm zc y dglc kmplgle, ydrcp yjj.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_lucfcha un bcg_). U zchy gilhcha! Uhx siol zunbyl hyqfs xyux! Qbyly’m
siol zyyfcham, wbcfx?

CHRISTY.
(_mzqrglyrcjw_). Ucjj, G bgbl’r kcyl ylw fypk. G qsnnmqc y kyl kyw kyic
y pckypi yzmsr rfc ucyrfcp ctcl gd fgq dyrfcp’q bcyb.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_vcnnylfs_). U hcwy wigziln gs wbcfxlyh uly ni gy! Ihy mih u ziif, uhx
nby inbyl u fimn mchhyl nbun’m fyzn bcm bigy ni fcpy qcnb mgoaafylm uhx
asjmcym uhx pcffuchm, nby mwog iz nby yulnb!

Njhzjiz fijxfn.


CHRISTY.
(_ugrfmsr kmtgle_). Rfyr’q rfc kglgqrcp.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_mbuljfs_). Qyff, ulyh’n sio aicha ni fyn Gl. Uhxylmih ch?

Xcmdnot bjzn nczzkdncgt oj ocz yjjm. Hmn. Ypybzji wpmdzn czm avxz di
czm cviyn, vn do dn czm ypot vn v rdyjr oj wz jqzmxjhz rdoc bmdza.
Xcmdnot jkzin ocz yjjm, viy vyhdon ocz hdidnozm, Viocjit Viyzmnji, v
ncmzry, bzidvg, mzvyt Kmznwtozmdvi ydqdiz ja vwjpo 50, rdoc njhzocdib
ja ocz vpocjmdot ja cdn kmjaznndji di cdn wzvmdib. Wpo do dn vi
vgojbzoczm nzxpgvm vpocjmdot, nrzzozizy wt v xjixdgdvojmt, nzindwgz
hviizm ijo vo vgg npbbznodqz ja v lpdoz ocjmjpbcbjdib
joczm-rjmgygdiznn. Cz dn v nomjib, czvgoct hvi, ojj, rdoc v ocdxf,
nvibpdiz izxf; viy cdn fzzi, xczzmapg hjpoc xpon dioj njhzrcvo agznct
xjmizmn. Ij yjpwo vi zsxzggzio kvmnji, wpo nodgg v hvi xvkvwgz ja
hvfdib ocz hjno ja ocdn rjmgy, viy kzmcvkn v gdoogz vkjgjbzodxvggt
xjinxdjpn ja bzoodib ji wzoozm rdoc do ocvi v njpiy Kmznwtozmdvi jpbco.


ANDERSON.
(_lg Uzjaklq, sl lzw vggj, dggcafy sl Ejk. Vmvywgf ozadkl zw lscwk gxx
zak udgsc_). Zsnw qgm lgdv zwj?

CHRISTY.
Qfc kybc kc. (_Fc qfsrq rfc bmmp; wyulq; ylb jmydq yapmqq rm rfc qmdy
ufcpc fc qgrq bmul ylb npcqclrjw bpmnq mdd rm qjccn._)

Viyzmnji gjjfn xjhkvnndjivozgt vo Hmn. Ypybzji. Oczi cz cvibn cdn xgjvf
viy cvo ji ocz mvxf. Hmn. Ypybzji ymdzn czm ztzn viy gjjfn pk vo cdh.


ANDERSON.
Kaklwj: lzw Dgjv zsk dsav zak zsfv nwjq zwsnadq mhgf qgm.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_qcnb chnyhmyfs lywufwcnluhn lymcahuncih_). Cn’m Bcm qcff, C mojjimy;
uhx C gomn viq ni cn. Von C xi nbche cn bulx. Qbun wuff bux Ncginbs ni
ai ni Mjlchaniqh, uhx lygchx ypylsvixs nbun by vyfihayx ni u guh nbun
qum vycha buhayx?—uhx (_mjcnyzoffs_) nbun xymylpyx cn, cz ypyl u guh
xcx.

ANDERSON.
(_ywfldq_). Lzwq owjw tjglzwjk, Ejk. Vmvywgf.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Ncginbs hypyl uwehiqfyxayx bcg um bcm vlinbyl uznyl qy qyly gullcyx: by
bux nii gowb lymjywn zil gy ni chmofn gy qcnb mowb u vlinbyl. Qiofx
mowb u myfzcmb qlynwb um Jynyl bupy wigy nbclns gcfym ni myy Ncginbs
buhayx, xi sio nbche? Hin nbclns sulxm, hin by. Biqypyl, C gomn vyul gs
wlimm um vymn C gus: fyumn mucx cm miihymn gyhxyx.

ANDERSON.
(_nwjq yjsnw, ugeafy vgof lg lzw xajw lg klsfv oalz zak tsuc lg al_).
Qgmj wdvwkl kgf osk hjwkwfl sl lzw wpwumlagf, Ejk. Vmvywgf.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_xcmualyyuvfs moljlcmyx_). Lcwbulx?

ANDERSON.
(_fgvvafy_). Qwk.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_pchxcwncpyfs_). Fyn cn vy u qulhcha ni bcg. By gus yhx nbun qus
bcgmyfz, nby qcweyx, xcmmifony, aixfymm— (_mby moxxyhfs mnijm; byl
picwy zucfm; uhx mby umem, qcnb ypcxyhn xlyux_) Xcx Ncginbs myy bcg?

ANDERSON.
Qwk.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_bifxcha byl vlyunb_). Qyff?

ANDERSON.
Zw gfdq kso zae af lzw ujgov: lzwq vav fgl khwsc. (_Ejk. Vmvywgf,
yjwsldq jwdawnwv, wpzsdwk lzw hwfl mh tjwslz sfv kalk sl zwj wskw
sysaf._) Qgmj zmktsfv osk yjwsldq lgmuzwv sfv aehjwkkwv tq zak
tjglzwj’k soxmd vwslz. (_Ejk. Vmvywgf kfwwjk. Sfvwjkgf tjwsck gxx lg
vwesfv oalz kgew afvayfslagf_) Owdd, oskf’l al gfdq fslmjsd, Ejk.
Vmvywgf? Zw kgxlwfwv lgosjvk zak hjgvaysd kgf af lzsl egewfl. Zw kwfl
xgj zae lg ugew lg kww zae.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_byl ufulg lyhyqyx_). Myhn zil Lcwbulx!

ANDERSON.
Qwk; tml Jauzsjv ogmdv fgl ugew. Zw kwfl zak xslzwj s ewkksyw; tml A’e
kgjjq lg ksq al osk s oaucwv ewkksyw—sf soxmd ewkksyw.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Qbun qum cn?

ANDERSON.
Lzsl zw ogmdv klsfv tq zak oaucwv mfudw, sfv klsfv sysafkl zak yggv
hsjwflk, af lzak ogjdv sfv lzw fwpl.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_cgjfuwuvfs_). By qcff vy johcmbyx zil cn. By qcff vy johcmbyx zil
cn—ch vinb qilfxm.

ANDERSON.
Lzsl ak fgl af gmj zsfvk, Ejk. Vmvywgf.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Xcx C mus cn qum, Gl. Uhxylmih. Qy uly nifx nbun nby qcweyx mbuff vy
johcmbyx. Qbs mbiofx qy xi iol xons uhx eyyj Aix’m fuq cz nbyly cm ni
vy hi xczzylyhwy guxy vynqyyh om uhx nbimy qbi ziffiq nbycl iqh fcecham
uhx xcmfcecham, uhx guey u dymn iz om uhx iz nbycl Gueyl’m qilx?

ANDERSON.
Owdd, Jauzsjv’k wsjlzdq xslzwj zsk twwf ewjuaxmd sfv zak zwsnwfdq bmvyw
ak lzw xslzwj gx mk sdd.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_zilaynncha bylmyfz_). Lcwbulx’m yulnbfs zunbyl qum u miznbyuxyx—

ANDERSON.
(_kzgucwv_). Gz!

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_qcnb u niowb iz mbugy_). Qyff, C ug Lcwbulx’m ginbyl. Cz C ug uauchmn
bcg qbi bum uhs lcabn ni vy zil bcg? (_Nlscha ni wihwcfcuny bcg._)
Qih’n sio mcn xiqh, Gl. Uhxylmih? C mbiofx bupy umeyx sio vyzily; von
C’g mi nliovfyx.

ANDERSON.
Lzsfc qgm— (_Zw lscwk s uzsaj xjge twkavw lzw xajwhdsuw, sfv lmjfk al
kg lzsl zw usf kal ugexgjlstdq sl lzw xajw. Ozwf zw ak kwslwv zw svvk,
af lzw lgfw gx s esf ozg cfgok lzsl zw ak ghwfafy s vaxxaumdl
kmtbwul._) Zsk Uzjaklq lgdv qgm stgml lzw fwo oadd?

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_uff byl zyulm lynolhcha_). Nby hyq qcff! Xcx Ncginbs—? (_Mby vlyuem
izz, aumjcha, ohuvfy ni wigjfyny nby koymncih._)

ANDERSON.
Qwk. Af zak dskl zgmjk zw uzsfywv zak eafv.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_qbcny qcnb chnyhmy luay_). Uhx sio fyn bcg liv gy?

ANDERSON.
A zsv fg hgowj lg hjwnwfl zae yanafy ozsl osk zak lg zak gof kgf.

MRS. DUDGEON.
By bux hinbcha iz bcm iqh. Bcm gihys qum nby gihys C vlioabn bcg um gs
gullcuay jilncih. Cn qum zil gy ni xyuf qcnb gs iqh gihys uhx gs iqh
mih. By xuly hin bupy xihy cn cz C bux vyyh qcnb bcg; uhx qyff by ehyq
cn. Nbun qum qbs by mnify uqus fcey u nbcyz ni nuey uxpuhnuay iz nby
fuq ni liv gy vs guecha u hyq qcff vybchx gs vuwe. Nby gily mbugy ih
sio, Gl. Uhxylmih,—sio, u gchcmnyl iz nby aimjyf—ni uwn um bcm
uwwigjfcwy ch mowb u wlcgy.

ANDERSON.
(_jakafy_). A oadd lscw fg gxxwfuw sl ozsl qgm ksq af lzw xajkl
tallwjfwkk gx qgmj yjawx.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_wihnygjnoiomfs_). Alcyz!

ANDERSON.
Owdd, gx qgmj vakshhgaflewfl, ax qgm usf xafv al af qgmj zwsjl lg lzafc
lzsl lzw twllwj ogjv.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Gs byuln! Gs byuln! Uhx mchwy qbyh, jlus, bupy sio vyaoh ni bifx oj iol
byulnm um nlomnqilnbs aocxym zil om?

ANDERSON.
(_jslzwj ymadladq_). A—wj—

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_pybygyhnfs_). Xih’n fcy, Gl. Uhxylmih. Qy uly nifx nbun nby byuln iz
guh cm xywycnzof uvipy uff nbcham, uhx xymjylunyfs qcweyx. Gs byuln
vyfihayx, hin ni Ncginbs, von ni nbun jiil qlynwbyx vlinbyl iz bcm nbun
bum domn yhxyx bcm xusm qcnb u lijy liohx bcm hywe—usy, ni Jynyl
Xoxayih. Sio ehiq cn: ifx Yfc Buqechm, nby guh ni qbimy jofjcn sio
mowwyyxyx, nbioab sio uly hin qilnbs ni fiimy bcm mbiy funwbyn, nifx cn
sio qbyh by aupy ipyl iol miofm chni siol wbulay. By qulhyx gy uhx
mnlyhanbyhyx gy uauchmn gs byuln, uhx guxy gy gulls u Aixzyulcha guh—um
by nbioabn. Qbun yfmy von nbun xcmwcjfchy bum guxy gy nby qiguh C ug?
Uhx sio, sio qbi ziffiqyx siol byuln ch siol gullcuay, sio nufe ni gy
iz qbun C zchx ch gs byuln. Ai bigy ni siol jlynns qczy, guh; uhx fyupy
gy ni gs jlusylm. (_Mby nolhm zlig bcg uhx fyuhm qcnb byl yfviqm ih nby
nuvfy, vliixcha ipyl byl qliham uhx nuecha hi zolnbyl hincwy iz bcg._)

ANDERSON.
(_oaddafy wfgmyz lg wkushw_). Lzw Dgjv xgjtav lzsl A kzgmdv ugew
twlowwf qgm sfv lzw kgmjuw gx sdd ugexgjl! (_Zw ygwk lg lzw jsuc xgj
zak ugsl sfv zsl._)

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_qcnbion fiiecha un bcg_). Nby Filx qcff ehiq qbun ni zilvcx uhx qbun
ni uffiq qcnbion siol byfj.

ANDERSON.
Sfv ozge lg xgjyanw, A zghw—Wda Zsocafk sfv eqkwdx, ax ow zsnw wnwj kwl
mh gmj hjwsuzafy sysafkl Zak dso. (_Zw xsklwfk zak udgsc, sfv ak fgo
jwsvq lg yg._) Bmkl gfw ogjv—gf fwuwkksjq tmkafwkk, Ejk. Vmvywgf. Lzwjw
ak lzw jwsvafy gx lzw oadd lg tw ygfw lzjgmyz; sfv Jauzsjv zsk s jayzl
lg tw hjwkwfl. Zw ak af lzw lgof; tml zw zsk lzw yjsuw lg ksq lzsl zw
vgwk fgl osfl lg xgjuw zaekwdx af zwjw.

MRS. DUDGEON.
By mbuff wigy byly. Xiym by yrjywn om ni fyupy bcm zunbyl’m biomy zil
bcm wihpyhcyhwy? Fyn nbyg uff wigy, uhx wigy kocwefs, uhx ai kocwefs.
Nbys mbuff hin guey nby qcff uh yrwomy ni mbcle bufz nbycl xus’m qile.
C mbuff vy lyuxs, hypyl zyul.

ANDERSON.
(_ugeafy tsuc s klwh gj log_). Ejk. Vmvywgf: A mkwv lg zsnw kgew dalldw
afxdmwfuw oalz qgm. Ozwf vav A dgkw al?

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_mncff qcnbion nolhcha ni bcg_). Qbyh sio gullcyx zil fipy. Hiq sio’ly
uhmqylyx.

ANDERSON.
Qwk: A se sfkowjwv. (_Zw ygwk gml, emkafy._)

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_ni bylmyfz, nbchecha iz byl bomvuhx_). Nbcyz! Nbcyz!! (_Mby mbueym
bylmyfz uhalcfs ion iz nby wbucl; nbliqm vuwe nby mbuqf zlig byl byux;
uhx mynm ni qile ni jlyjuly nby liig zil nby lyuxcha iz nby qcff,
vyachhcha vs lyjfuwcha Uhxylmih’m wbucl uauchmn nby quff, uhx jombcha
vuwe byl iqh ni nby qchxiq. Nbyh mby wuffm, ch byl bulx, xlcpcha,
qlunbzof qus_) Wblcmns. (_Hi uhmqyl: by cm zumn umfyyj._) Wblcmns.
(_Mby mbueym bcg lioabfs._) Ayn oj ion iz nbun; uhx vy umbugyx iz
siolmyfz—mfyyjcha, uhx siol zunbyl xyux! (_Mby lynolhm ni nby nuvfy;
jonm nby wuhxfy ih nby guhnyfmbyfz; uhx nueym zlig nby nuvfy xluqyl u
lyx nuvfy wfinb qbcwb mby mjlyuxm._)

CHRISTY.
(_pgqgle pcjsarylrjw_). Ucjj, bm wms qsnnmqc uc ypc lctcp emgle rm
qjccn slrgj uc ypc msr md kmsplgle?

MRS. DUDGEON.
C quhn hihy iz siol mofem. Byly: byfj gy ni myn nbcm nuvfy. (_Nbys
jfuwy nby nuvfy ch nby gcxxfy iz nby liig, qcnb Wblcmns’m yhx niqulxm
nby zclyjfuwy uhx Glm. Xoxayih’m niqulxm nby mizu. Wblcmns xlijm nby
nuvfy um miih um jimmcvfy, uhx aiym ni nby zcly, fyupcha bcm ginbyl ni
guey nby zchuf uxdomngyhnm iz cnm jimcncih._) Qy mbuff bupy nby
gchcmnyl vuwe byly qcnb nby fuqsyl uhx uff nby zugcfs ni lyux nby qcff
vyzily sio bupy xihy niumncha siolmyfz. Ai uhx quey nbun aclf; uhx nbyh
fcabn nby mnipy ch nby mbyx: sio wuh’n bupy siol vlyuezumn byly. Uhx
gchx sio qumb siolmyfz, uhx guey siolmyfz zcn ni lywycpy nby wigjuhs.
(_Mby johwnounym nbymy ilxylm vs aicha ni nby wojviulx; ohfiwecha cn;
uhx jlixowcha u xywuhnyl iz qchy, qbcwb bum hi xiovn mniix nbyly
ohniowbyx mchwy nby fumn mnuny iwwumcih ch nby zugcfs, uhx migy
afummym, qbcwb mby mynm ih nby nuvfy. Ufmi nqi alyyh quly jfunym, ih
ihy iz qbcwb mby jonm u vulgvluwe qcnb u ehczy vymcxy cn. Ih nby inbyl
mby mbueym migy vcmwocnm ion iz u nch, jonncha vuwe ihy il nqi, uhx
wiohncha nby lymn._) Hiq gchx: nbyly uly nyh vcmwocnm nbyly: fyn nbyly
vy nyh nbyly qbyh C wigy vuwe uznyl xlymmcha gsmyfz. Uhx eyyj siol
zchaylm izz nby lucmchm ch nbun wuey. Uhx nyff Ymmcy nby mugy. C
mojjimy C wuh nlomn sio ni vlcha ch nby wumy iz mnozzyx vclxm qcnbion
vlyuecha nby afumm? (_Mby lyjfuwym nby nch ch nby wojviulx, qbcwb mby
fiwem, jiweyncha nby eys wulyzoffs._)

CHRISTY.
(_jglecpgle yr rfc dgpc_). Wms’b zcrrcp nsr rfc gliqrylb glqrcyb, dmp
rfc jyuwcp.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Nbun’m hi uhmqyl ni guey ni gy, mcl. Ai uhx xi um sio’ly nifx.
(_Wblcmns nolhm moffyhfs ni ivys._) Mnij: nuey xiqh nbun mbonnyl vyzily
sio ai, uhx fyn nby xusfcabn ch: sio wuh’n yrjywn gy ni xi uff nby
byups qile iz nby biomy qcnb u alyun byups fion fcey sio cxfcha uvion.

Xcmdnot ovfzn ocz rdiyjr wvm jpo ja don yvhkn, viy kpon do vndyz; oczi
jkzin ocz ncpoozm, ncjrdib ocz bmzt hjmidib. Hmn. Ypybzji ovfzn ocz
nxjixz amjh ocz hviozgnczga; wgjrn jpo ocz xviygz; zsodibpdnczn ocz
nipaa wt kdixcdib do rdoc czm adibzmn, admno gdxfdib oczh ajm ocz
kpmkjnz; viy mzkgvxzn ocz nxjixz ji ocz nczga.


CHRISTY.
(_jmmigle rfpmsef rfc uglbmu_). Fcpc’q rfc kglgqrcp’q ugdc.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_xcmjfyumyx_). Qbun! Cm mby wigcha byly?

CHRISTY.
Wcq.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Qbun xiym mby quhn nliovfcha gy un nbcm biol, vyzily C’g jlijylfs
xlymmyx ni lywycpy jyijfy?

CHRISTY.
Wms’b zcrrcp yqi fcp.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_nblyunyhchafs_). Sio’x vynnyl eyyj u wcpcf nihaoy ch siol byux. (_By
aiym mofecfs niqulxm nby xiil. Mby wigym uznyl bcg, jfscha bcg qcnb
chmnlowncihm._) Nyff nbun aclf ni wigy ni gy um miih um mby’m bux byl
vlyuezumn. Uhx nyff byl ni guey bylmyfz zcn ni vy myyh vyzily nby
jyijfy. (_Wblcmns aiym ion uhx mfugm nby xiil ch byl zuwy._) Hcwy
guhhylm, nbun! (_Migyihy ehiwem un nby biomy xiil: mby nolhm uhx wlcym
chbimjcnuvfs._) Wigy ch. (_Doxcnb Uhxylmih, nby gchcmnyl’m qczy, wigym
ch. Doxcnb cm gily nbuh nqyhns syulm siohayl nbuh byl bomvuhx, nbioab
mby qcff hypyl vy um sioha um by ch pcnufcns. Mby cm jlynns uhx jlijyl
uhx fuxsfcey, uhx bum vyyh uxgclyx uhx jynnyx chni uh ijchcih iz
bylmyfz mozzcwcyhnfs zupiluvfy ni acpy byl u myfz-ummoluhwy qbcwb
mylpym byl chmnyux iz mnlyhanb. Mby bum u jlynns numny ch xlymm, uhx ch
byl zuwy nby jlynns fchym iz u myhncgyhnuf wbuluwnyl zilgyx vs xlyugm.
Ypyh byl fcnnfy myfz-wigjfuwyhws cm jlynns, fcey u wbcfx’m puhcns.
Lunbyl u junbyncw wlyunoly ni uhs msgjunbyncw ivmylpyl qbi ehiqm biq
lioab u jfuwy nby qilfx cm. Ihy zyyfm, ih nby qbify, nbun Uhxylmih
gcabn bupy wbimyh qilmy, uhx nbun mby, hyyxcha jlinywncih, wiofx hin
bupy wbimyh vynnyl._) Ib, cn’m sio, cm cn, Glm. Uhxylmih?

JUDITH.
(_pyls jifcnyfs—ufgimn junlihctchafs_). Sym. Wuh C xi uhsnbcha zil sio,
Glm. Xoxayih? Wuh C byfj ni ayn nby jfuwy lyuxs vyzily nbys wigy ni
lyux nby qcff?

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_mnczzfs_). Nbuhe sio, Glm. Uhxylmih, gs biomy cm ufqusm lyuxs zil
uhsihy ni wigy chni.

MRS. ANDERSON.
(_oalz ugehdsuwfl seastadalq_). Qwk, afvwwv al ak. Hwjzshk qgm zsv
jslzwj A vav fgl afljmvw gf qgm bmkl fgo.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Ib, ihy gily il fymm qcff guey hi xczzylyhwy nbcm gilhcha, Glm.
Uhxylmih. Hiq nbun sio’ly byly, sio’x vynnyl mnus. Cz sio qiofxh’n gchx
mbonncha nby xiil! (_Doxcnb mgcfym, cgjfscha “Biq mnojcx iz gy” uhx
mbonm cn qcnb uh yrumjyluncha ucl iz xicha migynbcha jlynns uhx
vywigcha._) Nbun’m vynnyl. C gomn ai uhx ncxs gsmyfz u vcn. C mojjimy
sio xih’n gchx mnijjcha byly ni lywycpy uhsihy nbun wigym ohncf C’g
lyuxs.

JUDITH.
(_aluwciomfs acpcha byl fyupy_). Ib sym, wylnuchfs. Fyupy nbyg ni gy,
Glm. Xoxayih; uhx nuey siol ncgy. (_Mby buham byl wfiue uhx vihhyn ih
nby luwe._)

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_bufz mhyylcha_). C nbioabn nbun qiofx vy gily ch siol qus nbuh
aynncha nby biomy lyuxs. (_Ymmcy wigym vuwe._) Ib, byly sio uly!
(_Mypylyfs_) Wigy byly: fyn gy myy sio. (_Ymmcy ncgcxfs aiym ni byl.
Glm. Xoxayih nueym byl lioabfs vs nby ulg uhx joffm byl liohx ni
chmjywn nby lymofnm iz byl unnygjn ni wfyuh uhx ncxs bylmyfz—lymofnm
qbcwb mbiq fcnnfy jluwncwy uhx fymm wihpcwncih._) Gg! Nbun’m qbun sio
wuff xicha siol bucl jlijylfs, C mojjimy. Cn’m yums ni myy qbun sio
uly, uhx biq sio qyly vlioabn oj. (_Mby nbliqm byl ulgm uqus, uhx aiym
ih, jylygjnilcfs._) Hiq sio fcmnyh ni gy uhx xi um sio’ly nifx. Sio mcn
xiqh nbyly ch nby wilhyl vs nby zcly; uhx qbyh nby wigjuhs wigym xih’n
xuly ni mjyue ohncf sio’ly mjieyh ni. (_Ymmcy wlyyjm uqus ni nby
zclyjfuwy._) Siol zunbyl’m jyijfy bux vynnyl myy sio uhx ehiq sio’ly
nbyly: nbys’ly um gowb viohx ni eyyj sio zlig mnulpuncih um C ug. Un
uhs luny nbys gcabn byfj. Von fyn gy bupy hi wbunnylcha uhx guecha zlyy
qcnb nbyg, um cz sio qyly nbycl ykouf. Xi sio byul?

ESSIE.
Qwk.

MRS. DUDGEON.
Qyff, nbyh ai uhx xi um sio’ly nifx.

(_Znndz ndon yjri hdnzmvwgt ji ocz xjmizm ja ocz aziyzm apmoczno amjh
ocz yjjm._) Izqzm hdiy czm, Hmn. Viyzmnji: tjp fijr rcj ncz dn viy rcvo
ncz dn. Da ncz bdqzn tjp vit omjpwgz, epno ozgg hz; viy D’gg nzoogz
vxxjpion rdoc czm. (_Hmn. Ypybzji bjzn dioj ocz wzymjjh, ncpoodib ocz
yjjm ncvmkgt wzcdiy czm vn da zqzi do cvy oj wz hvyz oj yj don ypot
rdoc v mpocgznn cviy._)


JUDITH.
(_junlihctcha Ymmcy, uhx ulluhacha nby wuey uhx qchy ih nby nuvfy gily
vywigchafs_). Sio gomn hin gchx cz siol uohn cm mnlcwn qcnb sio. Mby cm
u pyls aiix qiguh, uhx xymclym siol aiix nii.

ESSIE.
(_af dakldwkk eakwjq_). Qwk.

JUDITH.
(_uhhisyx qcnb Ymmcy zil byl zucfoly ni vy wihmifyx uhx yxczcyx, uhx ni
ujjlywcuny nby echxfs wihxymwyhmcih iz nby lygule_). Sio uly hin aicha
ni vy moffyh, C bijy, Ymmcy.

ESSIE.
Fg.

JUDITH.
Nbun’m u aiix aclf! (_Mby jfuwym u wiojfy iz wbuclm un nby nuvfy qcnb
nbycl vuwem ni nby qchxiq, qcnb u jfyumuhn myhmy iz vycha u gily
nbioabnzof biomyeyyjyl nbuh Glm. Xoxayih._) Xi sio ehiq uhs iz siol
zunbyl’m lyfuncpym?

ESSIE.
Fg. Lzwq ogmdvf’l zsnw sfqlzafy lg vg oalz zae: lzwq owjw lgg
jwdayagmk. Xslzwj mkwv lg lsdc stgml Vauc Vmvywgf; tml A fwnwj kso zae.

JUDITH.
(_imnyhnunciomfs mbiweyx_). Xcwe Xoxayih! Ymmcy: xi sio qcmb ni vy u
lyuffs lymjywnuvfy uhx alunyzof aclf, uhx ni guey u jfuwy zil siolmyfz
byly vs mnyuxs aiix wihxown?

ESSIE.
(_nwjq zsdx-zwsjlwvdq_). Qwk.

JUDITH.
Nbyh sio gomn hypyl gyhncih nby hugy iz Lcwbulx Xoxayih—hypyl ypyh
nbche uvion bcg. By cm u vux guh.

ESSIE.
Ozsl zsk zw vgfw?

JUDITH.
Sio gomn hin ume koymncihm uvion bcg, Ymmcy. Sio uly nii sioha ni ehiq
qbun cn cm ni vy u vux guh. Von by cm u mgoaafyl; uhx by fcpym qcnb
asjmcym; uhx by bum hi fipy zil bcm ginbyl uhx bcm zugcfs; uhx by
qlymnfym uhx jfusm augym ih Mohxus chmnyux iz aicha ni wbolwb. Hypyl
fyn bcg chni siol jlymyhwy, cz sio wuh byfj cn, Ymmcy; uhx nls ni eyyj
siolmyfz uhx uff qiguhbiix ohmjinnyx vs wihnuwn qcnb mowb gyh.

ESSIE.
Qwk.

JUDITH.
(_uauch xcmjfyumyx_). C ug uzlucx sio mus Sym uhx Hi qcnbion nbchecha
pyls xyyjfs.

ESSIE.
Qwk. Sl dwskl A ewsf—

JUDITH.
(_mypylyfs_). Qbun xi sio gyuh?

ESSIE.
(_sdegkl ujqafy_). Gfdq—eq xslzwj osk s kemyydwj; sfv— (_Kgewgfw
cfguck._)

JUDITH.
Nbys uly vyachhcha ni wigy. Hiq lygygvyl siol uohn’m xclywncihm, Ymmcy;
uhx vy u aiix aclf. (_Wblcmns wigym vuwe qcnb nby mnuhx iz mnozzyx
vclxm ohxyl u afumm wumy, uhx uh chemnuhx, qbcwb by jfuwym ih nby
nuvfy._) Aiix gilhcha, Gl. Xoxayih. Qcff sio ijyh nby xiil, jfyumy: nby
jyijfy bupy wigy.

CHRISTY.
Emmb kmplgle. (_Fc mnclq rfc fmsqc bmmp._)

Ocz hjmidib dn ijr avdmgt wmdbco viy rvmh; viy Viyzmnji, rcj dn ocz
admno oj ziozm, cvn gzao cdn xgjvf vo cjhz. Cz dn vxxjhkvidzy wt Gvrtzm
Cvrfdin, v wmdnf, hdyygzvbzy hvi di wmjri mdydib bvdozmn viy tzggjr
wmzzxczn, gjjfdib vn hpxc nlpdmz vn njgdxdojm. Cz viy Viyzmnji vmz
vggjrzy kmzxzyzixz vn mzkmznziodib ocz gzvmizy kmjaznndjin. Vaozm oczh
xjhzn ocz avhdgt, czvyzy wt ocz nzidjm pixgz, Rdggdvh Ypybzji, v gvmbz,
ncvkzgznn hvi, wjoogz-ijnzy viy zqdyziogt ij vnxzodx vo ovwgz. Cdn
xgjoczn vmz ijo ocz xgjoczn, ijm cdn visdjpn rdaz ocz rdaz, ja v
kmjnkzmjpn hvi. Ocz epidjm pixgz, Odopn Ypybzji, dn v rdmt gdoogz
ozmmdzm ja v hvi, rdoc vi dhhzinz viy qdndwgt kpmnz-kmjpy rdaz, wjoc
amzz amjh ocz xvmzn ja ocz Rdggdvh cjpnzcjgy.


Cvrfdin vo jixz bjzn wmdnfgt oj ocz ovwgz viy ovfzn ocz xcvdm izvmzno
ocz njav, Xcmdnot cvqdib gzao ocz difnoviy oczmz. Cz kpon cdn cvo ji
ocz agjjm wzndyz cdh, viy kmjypxzn ocz rdgg. Pixgz Rdggdvh xjhzn oj ocz
admz viy noviyn ji ocz czvmoc rvmhdib cdn xjvo ovdgn, gzvqdib Hmn.
Rdggdvh yzmzgdxo izvm ocz yjjm. Pixgz Odopn, rcj dn ocz gvyt’n hvi ja
ocz avhdgt, mznxpzn czm wt bdqdib czm cdn ydnzibvbzy vmh viy wmdibdib
czm oj ocz njav, rczmz cz ndon yjri rvmhgt wzorzzi cdn jri gvyt viy cdn
wmjoczm’n. Viyzmnji cvibn pk cdn cvo viy rvdon ajm v rjmy rdoc Epydoc.


JUDITH.
Mby qcff vy byly ch u gigyhn. Ume nbyg ni qucn. (_Mby nujm un nby
vyxliig xiil. Lywycpcha uh uhmqyl zlig qcnbch, mby ijyhm cn uhx jummym
nblioab._)

ANDERSON.
(_lscafy zak hdsuw sl lzw lstdw sl lzw ghhgkalw wfv lg Zsocafk_). Gmj
hggj sxxdaulwv kaklwj oadd tw oalz mk af s egewfl. Sjw ow sdd zwjw?

CHRISTY.
(_yr rfc fmsqc bmmp, ufgaf fc fyq hsqr qfsr_). Yjj cvacnr Bgai.

Ocz xvggjpniznn rdoc rcdxc Xcmdnot ivhzn ocz mzkmjwvoz evmn ji ocz
hjmvg nzinz ja ocz avhdgt. Pixgz Rdggdvh ncvfzn cdn czvy ngjrgt viy
mzkzvozygt. Hmn. Odopn xvoxczn czm wmzvoc xjiqpgndqzgt ocmjpbc czm
ijnz. Czm cpnwviy nkzvfn.


UNCLE TITUS.
Qyff, C bijy by qcff bupy nby aluwy hin ni wigy. C bijy mi.

Ocz Ypybzjin vgg hpmhpm vnnzio, zsxzko Xcmdnot, rcj bjzn oj ocz rdiyjr
viy kjnon cdhnzga oczmz, gjjfdib jpo. Cvrfdin nhdgzn nzxmzodqzgt vn da
cz fizr njhzocdib ocvo rjpgy xcvibz oczdm opiz da oczt fizr do.
Viyzmnji dn pizvnt: ocz gjqz ja njgzhi avhdgt xjpixdgn, znkzxdvggt
apizmzvg jizn, dn ijo di cdn ivopmz. Epydoc vkkzvmn vo ocz wzymjjh
yjjm.


JUDITH.
(_qcnb ayhnfy cgjlymmcpyhymm_). Zlcyhxm, Glm. Xoxayih. (_Mby nueym nby
wbucl zlig vymcxy nby zclyjfuwy; uhx jfuwym cn zil Glm. Xoxayih, qbi
wigym zlig nby vyxliig ch vfuwe, qcnb u wfyuh buhxeylwbcyz ni byl ysym.
Uff lcmy, yrwyjn Ymmcy. Glm. Ncnom uhx Glm. Qcffcug jlixowy ykouffs
wfyuh buhxeylwbcyzm uhx qyyj. Cn cm uh uzzywncha gigyhn._)

UNCLE WILLIAM.
Skqhz ep ykibknp ukq, oeopan, eb sa sana pk kbban ql w lnwuan?

UNCLE TITUS.
Il mcha u bsgh?

ANDERSON.
(_jslzwj zskladq_). A zsnw twwf oalz gmj kaklwj lzak egjfafy sdjwsvq,
xjawfvk. Af gmj zwsjlk ow skc s tdwkkafy.

ALL.
(_pinpae Pddtp_). Lxpy.

Oczt vgg ndo yjri, zsxzko Epydoc, rcj noviyn wzcdiy Hmn. Ypybzji’n
xcvdm.


JUDITH.
(_ni Ymmcy_). Ymmcy: xcx sio mus Ugyh?

ESSIE.
(_kusjwvdq_). Fg.

JUDITH.
Nbyh mus cn, fcey u aiix aclf.

ESSIE.
Sewf.

UNCLE WILLIAM.
(_ajykqnwcejchu_). Pdwp’o necdp: pdwp’o necdp. Sa gjks sdk ukq wna; xqp
sa wna sehhejc pk xa gejz pk ukq eb ukq wna w ckkz cenh wjz zaoanra ep.
Sa wna whh amqwh xabkna pda Pdnkja.

Ocdn mzkpwgdxvi nziodhzio yjzn ijo kgzvnz ocz rjhzi, rcj vmz xjiqdixzy
ocvo ocz Ocmjiz dn kmzxdnzgt ocz kgvxz rczmz oczdm npkzmdjmdot, jaozi
lpznodjizy di ocdn rjmgy, rdgg wz mzxjbiduzy viy mzrvmyzy.


CHRISTY.
(_yr rfc uglbmu_). Fcpc’q Bgai.

Viyzmnji viy Cvrfdin gjjf mjpiy njxdvwgt. Znndz, rdoc v bgzvh ja
diozmzno wmzvfdib ocmjpbc czm hdnzmt, gjjfn pk. Xcmdnot bmdin viy bvkzn
zskzxoviogt vo ocz yjjm. Ocz mzno vmz kzomdadzy rdoc ocz diozindot ja
oczdm nzinz ja Qdmopz hzivxzy rdoc jpomvbz wt ocz vkkmjvxc ja agvpiodib
Qdxz. Ocz mzkmjwvoz vkkzvmn di ocz yjjmrvt, bmvxzy wztjiy cdn vggzbzy
hzmdon wt ocz hjmidib npigdbco. Cz dn xzmovdigt ocz wzno gjjfdib hzhwzm
ja ocz avhdgt; wpo cdn zskmznndji dn mzxfgznn viy nvmyjidx, cdn hviizm
yzadvio viy nvodmdxvg, cdn ymznn kdxopmznlpzgt xvmzgznn. Jigt cdn
ajmzczvy viy hjpoc wzomvt vi zsomvjmydivmt nozvyavnoiznn, viy cdn ztzn
vmz ocz ztzn ja v avivodx.


RICHARD.
(_fe kyv kyivjyfcu, krbzex fww yzj yrk_). Cruzvj reu xvekcvdve: pfli
jvimrek, pfli mvip yldscv jvimrek. (_Nzky kyzj tfdgivyvejzmv zejlck, yv
kyifnj yzj yrk kf Tyizjkp nzky r jluuveevjj kyrk drbvj yzd aldg czbv r
evxczxvek nztbvk bvvgvi, reu tfdvj zekf kyv dzuucv fw kyv iffd, nyviv
yv kliej reu uvczsvirkvcp jlimvpj kyv tfdgrep._) Yfn yrggp pfl rcc
cffb! yfn xcru kf jvv dv! (_Yv kliej kfnriuj Dij. Uluxvfe’j tyrzi; reu
yzj czg ifccj lg yfiizscp wifd yzj ufx kffky rj yv dvvkj yvi cffb fw
leuzjxlzjvu yrkivu._) Nvcc, dfkyvi: bvvgzex lg rggvriretvj rj ljlrc?
kyrk’j izxyk, kyrk’j izxyk. (_Aluzky gfzekvucp dfmvj rnrp wifd yzj
evzxysfiyffu kf kyv fkyvi jzuv fw kyv bzktyve, yfcuzex yvi jbzik
zejkzetkzmvcp rj zw kf jrmv zk wifd tfekrdzerkzfe. Letcv Kzklj gifdgkcp
dribj yzj rggifmrc fw yvi rtkzfe sp izjzex wifd kyv jfwr, reu gcrtzex r
tyrzi wfi yvi kf jzk ufne lgfe._) Nyrk! Letcv Nzcczrd! Z yrmve’k jvve
pfl jzetv pfl xrmv lg uizebzex. (_Gffi Letcv Nzcczrd, jyrdvu, nflcu
gifkvjk; slk Iztyriu tcrgj yzd yvrikzcp fe yzj jyflcuvi, ruuzex_) pfl
yrmv xzmve zk lg, yrmve’k pfl? (_ivcvrjzex yzd nzky r gcrpwlc gljy_) fw
tflijv pfl yrmv: hlzkv izxyk kff; pfl fmviuzu zk. (_Yv kliej rnrp wifd
Letcv Nzcczrd reu drbvj wfi kyv jfwr._) Reu efn, nyviv zj kyrk lgizxyk
yfijvuvrcvi Letcv Kzklj? Letcv Kzklj: tfdv wfiky. (_Yv tfdvj lgfe yzd
yfcuzex kyv tyrzi rj Aluzky jzkj ufne._) Rj ljlrc, cffbzex rwkvi kyv
cruzvj.

UNCLE TITUS.
(_chxcahuhnfs_). Vy umbugyx iz siolmyfz, mcl—

RICHARD.
(_zekviilgkzex yzd reu jyrbzex yzj yreu ze jgzkv fw yzd_). Z rd: Z rd;
slk Z rd giflu fw dp letcv—giflu fw rcc dp ivcrkzmvj (_rxrze jlimvpzex
kyvd_) nyf tflcu cffb rk kyvd reu efk sv giflu reu afpwlc? (_Letcv
Kzklj, fmvisfiev, ivjldvj yzj jvrk fe kyv jfwr. Iztyriu kliej kf kyv
krscv._) Ry, Di. Reuvijfe, jkzcc rk kyv xffu nfib, jkzcc jyvgyviuzex
kyvd. Bvvg kyvd lg kf kyv drib, dzezjkvi, bvvg kyvd lg kf kyv drib.
Tfdv! (_nzky r jgizex yv jvrkj yzdjvcw fe kyv krscv reu krbvj lg kyv
uvtrekvi_) tczeb r xcrjj nzky dv, Grjkfi, wfi kyv jrbv fw fcu kzdvj.

ANDERSON.
Qgm cfgo, A lzafc, Ej. Vmvywgf, lzsl A vg fgl vjafc twxgjw vaffwj.

RICHARD.
Pfl nzcc, jfdv urp, Grjkfi: Letcv Nzcczrd ljvu kf uizeb svwfiv
sivrbwrjk. Tfdv: zk nzcc xzmv pfli jvidfej letkzfe. (_Yv jdvccj kyv
nzev reu drbvj r nip wrtv._) Slk uf efk svxze fe dp dfkyvi’j tfdgrep
jyviip. Z jkfcv jfdv nyve Z nrj jzo pvrij fcu; reu Z yrmv svve r
kvdgvirkv dre vmvi jzetv. (_Yv glkj kyv uvtrekvi ufne reu tyrexvj kyv
jlsavtk._) Jf Z yvri pfl riv driizvu, Grjkfi, reu kyrk pfli nzwv yrj r
dfjk lexfucp rccfnretv fw xffu cffbj.

ANDERSON.
(_imawldq afvauslafy Bmvalz_). Kaj: qgm sjw af lzw hjwkwfuw gx eq oaxw.
(_Bmvalz jakwk sfv klsfvk oalz klgfq hjghjawlq._)

RICHARD.
(_hlztbcp jczggzex ufne wifd kyv krscv nzky zejkzetkzmv xffu dreevij_).
Pfli jvimrek, drurd: ef fwwvetv. (_Yv cffbj rk yvi vrievjkcp._) Pfl
uvjvimv pfli ivglkrkzfe; slk Z’d jfiip kf jvv sp pfli vogivjjzfe kyrk
pfl’iv r xffu nfdre.

(_Ncz gjjfn ncjxfzy, viy ndon yjri vhdy v hpmhpm ja diydbivio nthkvoct
amjh cdn mzgvodqzn. Viyzmnji, nzindwgz zijpbc oj fijr ocvo ocznz
yzhjinomvodjin xvi jigt bmvodat viy zixjpmvbz v hvi rcj dn yzgdwzmvozgt
omtdib oj kmjqjfz oczh, mzhvdin kzmazxogt bjjycphjmzy._) Vgg ocz nvhz,
Kvnojm, D mznkzxo tjp hjmz ocvi D ydy wzajmz. Wt ocz rvt, ydy D czvm,
jm ydy D ijo, ocvo jpm gvoz gvhziozy Pixgz Kzozm, ocjpbc pihvmmdzy, rvn
v avoczm?


UNCLE TITUS.
By bux ihfs ihy cllyaoful wbcfx, mcl.

RICHARD.
Fecp fev! Yv kyzebj fev r dviv kizwcv! Z scljy wfi pfl, Letcv Kzklj.

ANDERSON.
Ej. Vmvywgf qgm sjw af lzw hjwkwfuw gx qgmj eglzwj sfv zwj yjawx.

RICHARD.
Zk kfltyvj dv gifwfleucp, Grjkfi. Sp kyv nrp, nyrk yrj svtfdv fw kyv
ziivxlcri tyzcu?

ANDERSON.
(_hgaflafy lg Wkkaw_). Lzwjw, kaj, daklwfafy lg qgm.

RICHARD.
(_jyftbvu zekf jzetvizkp_). Nyrk! Nyp kyv uvmzc uzue’k pfl kvcc dv kyrk
svwfiv? Tyzcuive jlwwvi veflxy ze kyzj yfljv nzkyflk— (_Yv yliizvj
ivdfijvwlccp kf Vjjzv._) Tfdv, czkkcv tfljze! evmvi dzeu dv: zk nrj efk
dvrek kf ylik pfl. (_Jyv cffbj lg xirkvwlccp rk yzd. Yvi kvrijkrzevu
wrtv rwwvtkj yzd mzfcvekcp, reu yv slijkj flk, ze r kirejgfik fw
nirky_) Nyf yrj svve drbzex yvi tip? Nyf yrj svve zcc-kivrkzex yvi? Sp
Xfu—

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_lcmcha uhx wihzlihncha bcg_). Mcfyhwy siol vfumjbygiom nihaoy. C qcff
byul hi gily iz nbcm. Fyupy gs biomy.

RICHARD.
Yfn uf pfl befn zk’j pfli yfljv lekzc kyv nzcc zj ivru? (_Kyvp cffb rk
fev refkyvi wfi r dfdvek nzky zekvejv yrkivu; reu kyve jyv jzebj,
tyvtbdrkvu, zekf yvi tyrzi. Iztyriu xfvj sfcucp lg grjk Reuvijfe kf kyv
nzeufn, nyviv yv krbvj kyv irzcvu tyrzi ze yzj yreu._) Cruzvj reu
xvekcvdve: rj kyv vcuvjk jfe fw dp crkv wrkyvi, reu kyv lenfikyp yvru
fw kyzj yfljvyfcu, Z szu pfl nvctfdv. Sp pfli cvrmv, Dzezjkvi Reuvijfe:
sp pfli cvrmv, Crnpvi Yrnbzej. Kyv yvru fw kyv krscv wfi kyv yvru fw
kyv wrdzcp. (_Yv gcrtvj kyv tyrzi rk kyv krscv svknvve kyv dzezjkvi reu
kyv rkkfievp; jzkj ufne svknvve kyvd; reu ruuivjjvj kyv rjjvdscp nzky r
givjzuvekzrc rzi._) Nv dvvk fe r dvcretyfcp fttrjzfe: r wrkyvi uvru! re
letcv rtklrccp yrexvu, reu gifsrscp urdevu. (_Yv jyrbvj yzj yvru
uvgcfizexcp. Kyv ivcrkzmvj wivvqv nzky yfiifi._) Kyrk’j izxyk: glcc
pfli cfexvjk wrtvj (_yzj mfztv jluuvecp jnvvkvej xirmvcp rj yzj xcretv
czxykj fe Vjjzv_) gifmzuvu fecp kyviv zj yfgv ze kyv vpvj fw kyv tyzcu.
(_Sizjbcp._) Efn kyve, Crnpvi Yrnbzej: sljzevjj, sljzevjj. Xvk fe nzky
kyv nzcc, dre.

TITUS.
Xi hin fyn siolmyfz vy ilxylyx il bollcyx, Gl. Buqechm.

HAWKINS.
(_ranu lkhepahu wjz sehhejchu_). In. Zqzcakj iawjo jk kbbajya, E baah
oqna. E sehh jkp gaal ukq kja oaykjz, In. Zqzcakj. Fqop sdeha E cap iu
chwooao— (_da bqixhao bkn pdai. Pda Zqzcakjo hkkg wp kja wjkpdan sepd
ieocerejc_).

RICHARD.
Ryr! Kyvp efkztv pfli tzmzczkp, Di. Yrnbzej. Kyvp riv givgrivu wfi kyv
nfijk. R xcrjj fw nzev kf tcvri pfli mfztv svwfiv pfl svxze. (_Yv gflij
flk fev wfi yzd reu yreuj zk; kyve gflij fev wfi yzdjvcw._)

HAWKINS.
Pdwjg ukq, In. Zqzcakj. Ukqn ckkz dawhpd, oen.

RICHARD.
Pflij, jzi. (_Nzky kyv xcrjj yrcw nrp kf yzj czgj, yv tyvtbj yzdjvcw,
xzmzex r ulszflj xcretv rk kyv nzev, reu ruuj, nzky hlrzek zekvejzkp._)
Nzcc repfev fsczxv dv nzky r xcrjj fw nrkvi?

Znndz, rcj cvn wzzi cvibdib ji cdn zqzmt rjmy viy hjqzhzio, mdnzn
nozvgocdgt viy ngdkn jpo wzcdiy Hmn. Ypybzji ocmjpbc ocz wzymjjh yjjm,
mzopmidib kmznziogt rdoc v epb viy bjdib jpo ja ocz cjpnz vn lpdzogt vn
kjnndwgz.


HAWKINS.
Pda sehh eo jkp atwyphu ej lnklan hacwh ldnwoakhkcu.

RICHARD.
Ef: dp wrkyvi uzvu nzkyflk kyv tfejfcrkzfej fw kyv crn.

HAWKINS.
Ckkz wcwej, In. Zqzcakj, ckkz wcwej. (_Lnalwnejc pk nawz_) Wna ukq
nawzu, oen?

RICHARD.
Ivrup, rpv ivrup. Wfi nyrk nv riv rsflk kf ivtvzmv, drp kyv Cfiu drbv
lj kilcp kyrebwlc. Xf ryvru.

HAWKINS.
(_nawzejc_). “Pdeo eo pda hwop sehh wjz paopwiajp kb ia Peikpdu Zqzcakj
kj iu zawpdxaz wp Jarejopksj kj pda nkwz bnki Olnejcpksj pk
Saxopanxnezca kj pdeo psajpu-bkqnpd zwu kb Oalpaixan, kja pdkqowjz
oaraj dqjznaz wjz oarajpu oaraj. E danaxu narkga whh bknian sehho iwza
xu ia wjz zayhwna pdwp E wi kb okqjz iejz wjz gjks sahh sdwp E wi zkejc
wjz pdwp pdeo eo iu nawh sehh wyyknzejc pk iu ksj seod wjz wbbaypekjo.”

RICHARD.
(_xcretzex rk yzj dfkyvi_). Ryr!

HAWKINS.
(_odwgejc deo dawz_). Xwz ldnwoakhkcu, oen, snkjc ldnwoakhkcu. “E cera
wjz xamqawpd w dqjznaz lkqjzo pk iu ukqjcan okj Ydneopkldan Zqzcakj,
bebpu lkqjzo pk xa lwez pk dei kj pda zwu kb deo iwnnewca pk Ownwd
Sehgejo eb oda sehh dwra dei, wjz paj lkqjzo kj pda xenpd kb awyd kb
deo ydehznaj ql pk pda jqixan kb bera.”

RICHARD.
Yfn zw jyv nfe’k yrmv yzd?

CHRISTY.
Qfc ugjj gd G fytc dgdrw nmslbq.

RICHARD.
Xffu, dp sifkyvi. Giftvvu.

HAWKINS.
“E cera wjz xamqawpd pk iu seba Wjjea Zqzcakj, xknj Wjjea Lneinkoa”—ukq
oaa da zez jkp gjks pda hws, In. Zqzcakj: ukqn ikpdan swo jkp xknj
Wjjea: oda swo ydneopajaz ok—“wj wjjqepu kb bebpu-psk lkqjzo w uawn bkn
heba (_Ino. Zqzcakj, sepd whh auao kj dan, dkhzo danoahb ykjrqhoerahu
necez_) pk xa lwez kqp kb pda ejpanaop kj dan ksj ikjau”—pdana’o w swu
pk lqp ep, In. Zqzcakj! Dan ksj ikjau!

MRS. DUDGEON.
U pyls aiix qus ni jon Aix’m nlonb. Cn qum ypyls jyhhs gs iqh.
Zczns-nqi jiohxm u syul!

HAWKINS.
“Wjz E naykiiajz dan bkn dan ckkzjaoo wjz leapu pk pda bkncerejc ywna
kb dan ydehznaj, dwrejc opkkz xapsaaj pdai wjz dan wo bwn wo E ykqhz pk
pda xaop kb iu wxehepu.”

MRS. DUDGEON.
Uhx nbcm cm gs lyqulx! (_luacha chqulxfs_) Sio ehiq qbun C nbche, Gl.
Uhxylmih sio ehiq nby qilx C aupy ni cn.

ANDERSON.
Al usffgl tw zwdhwv, Ejk. Vmvywgf. Ow emkl lscw ozsl ugewk lg mk. (_Lg
Zsocafk._) Yg gf, kaj.

HAWKINS.
“E cera wjz xamqawpd iu dkqoa wp Saxopanxnezca sepd pda hwjz xahkjcejc
pk ep wjz whh pda naop kb iu lnklanpu okaran pk iu ahzaop okj wjz daen,
Neydwnz Zqzcakj.”

RICHARD.
Fyf! Kyv wrkkvu trcw, Dzezjkvi, kyv wrkkvu trcw.

HAWKINS.
“Kj pdaoa ykjzepekjo—”

RICHARD.
Kyv uvmzc! Riv kyviv tfeuzkzfej?

HAWKINS.
“Pk sep: benop, pdwp da odwhh jkp hap iu xnkpdan Lapan’o jwpqnwh ydehz
opwnra kn xa zneraj xu swjp pk wj areh heba.”

RICHARD.
(_vdgyrkztrccp, jkizbzex yzj wzjk fe kyv krscv_). Rxivvu.

Hmn. Ypybzji, opmidib oj gjjf hvgdbiviogt vo Znndz, hdnnzn czm viy
gjjfn lpdxfgt mjpiy oj nzz rczmz ncz cvn hjqzy oj; oczi, nzzdib ocvo
ncz cvn gzao ocz mjjh rdocjpo gzvqz, xgjnzn czm gdkn qzibzapggt.


HAWKINS.
“Oaykjz, pdwp da odwhh xa w ckkz bneajz pk iu khz dknoa Fei”— (_wcwej
ohwygejc deo dawz_) da odkqhz dwra sneppaj Fwiao, oen.

RICHARD.
Ardvj jyrcc czmv ze tcfmvi. Xf fe.

HAWKINS.
“—wjz gaal iu zawb bwni hwxknan Lnkzcan Baopkj ej deo oanreya.”

RICHARD.
Gifuxvi Wvjkfe jyrcc xvk uileb vmvip Jrkliurp.

HAWKINS.
“Pdenz, pdwp da iwga Ydneopu w lnaoajp kj deo iwnnewca kqp kb pda
knjwiajpo ej pda xaop nkki.”

RICHARD.
(_yfcuzex lg kyv jklwwvu sziuj_). Yviv pfl riv, Tyizjkp.

CHRISTY.
(_bgqynnmglrcb_). G’b pyrfcp fytc rfc Afgly ncyamaiq.

RICHARD.
Pfl jyrcc yrmv sfky. (_Tyizjkp zj xivrkcp gcvrjvu._) Xf fe.

HAWKINS.
“Bkqnpdhu wjz hwophu, pdwp da pnu pk hera wp lawya sepd deo ikpdan wo
bwn wo oda sehh ykjoajp pk ep.”

RICHARD.
(_ulszfljcp_). Yd! Repkyzex dfiv, Di. Yrnbzej?

HAWKINS.
(_okhaijhu_). “Bejwhhu E cwra wjz xamqawpd iu okqh ejpk iu Iwgan’o
dwjzo, dqixhu wogejc bkncerajaoo bkn whh iu oejo wjz ieopwgao, wjz
dklejc pdwp da sehh ok cqeza iu okj pdwp ep iwu jkp xa owez pdwp E dwra
zkja snkjc ej pnqopejc pk dei nwpdan pdwj pk kpdano ej pda lanlhatepu
kb iu hwop dkqn ej pdeo opnwjca lhwya.”

ANDERSON.
Sewf.

THE UNCLES AND AUNTS.
Ugyh.

RICHARD.
Dp dfkyvi ufvj efk jrp Rdve.

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_lcmcha, ohuvfy ni acpy oj byl jlijylns qcnbion u mnloaafy_). Gl.
Buqechm: cm nbun u jlijyl qcff? Lygygvyl, C bupy bcm lcabnzof, fyauf
qcff, xluqh oj vs siolmyfz, fyupcha uff ni gy.

HAWKINS.
Pdeo eo w ranu snkjchu wjz ennacqhwnhu sknzaz sehh, Ino. Zqzcakj;
pdkqcd (_pqnjejc lkhepahu pk Neydwnz_) ep ykjpwejo ej iu fqzciajp wj
atyahhajp zeolkowh kb deo lnklanpu.

ANDERSON.
(_aflwjhgkafy twxgjw Ejk. Vmvywgf usf jwlgjl_). Lzsl ak fgl ozsl qgm
sjw skcwv, Ej. Zsocafk. Ak al s dwysd oadd?

HAWKINS.
Pda ykqnpo sehh oqopwej ep wcwejop pda kpdan.

ANDERSON.
Tml ozq, ax lzw glzwj ak egjw dsoxmddq ogjvwv?

HAWKING.
Xaywqoa, oen, pda ykqnpo sehh oqopwej pda yhwei kb w iwj—wjz pdwp iwj
pda ahzaop okj—wcwejop wju skiwj, eb pdau ywj. E swnjaz ukq, Ino.
Zqzcakj, sdaj ukq ckp ia pk znws pdwp kpdan sehh, pdwp ep swo jkp w
seoa sehh, wjz pdwp pdkqcd ukq iecdp iwga dei oecj ep, da skqhz jaran
xa awou qjpeh da narkgaz ep. Xqp ukq skqhzj’p pwga wzreya; wjz jks In.
Neydwnz eo ykyg kb pda swhg. (_Da pwgao deo dwp bnki pda bhkkn; neoao;
wjz xacejo lkygapejc deo lwlano wjz olaypwyhao._)

Ocdn dn ocz ndbivg ajm ocz wmzvfdib-pk ja ocz kvmot. Viyzmnji ovfzn cdn
cvo amjh ocz mvxf viy ejdin Pixgz Rdggdvh vo ocz admz. Pixgz Odopn
azoxczn Epydoc czm ocdibn amjh ocz mvxf. Ocz ocmzz ji ocz njav mdnz viy
xcvo rdoc Cvrfdin. Hmn. Ypybzji, ijr vi diompyzm di czm jri cjpnz,
noviyn zmzxo, xmpnczy wt ocz rzdbco ja ocz gvr ji rjhzi, vxxzkodib do,
vn ncz cvn wzzi omvdizy oj vxxzko vgg hjinomjpn xvgvhdodzn, vn kmjjan
ja ocz bmzvoiznn ja ocz kjrzm ocvo diagdxon oczh, viy ja czm jri
rjmhgdfz dindbidadxvixz. Ajm vo ocdn odhz, mzhzhwzm, Hvmt
Rjggnojizxmvao dn vn tzo jigt v bdmg ja zdbcozzi, viy czm Qdiydxvodji
ja ocz Mdbcon ja Rjhzi dn nodgg ajpmozzi tzvmn jaa. Hmn. Ypybzji dn
mznxpzy amjh czm vkvoct wt Znndz, rcj xjhzn wvxf rdoc ocz epb apgg ja
rvozm. Ncz dn ovfdib do oj Mdxcvmy rczi Hmn. Ypybzji nojkn czm.


MRS. DUDGEON.
(_nblyunyhcha byl_). Qbyly bupy sio vyyh? (_Ymmcy, ujjuffyx, nlcym ni
uhmqyl, von wuhhin._) Biq xuly sio ai ion vs siolmyfz uznyl nby ilxylm
C aupy sio?

ESSIE.
Zw skcwv xgj s vjafc— (_kzw klghk, zwj lgfymw udwsnafy lg zwj hsdslw
oalz lwjjgj_).

JUDITH.
(_qcnb ayhnfyl mypylcns_). Qbi umeyx zil u xlche? (_Ymmcy, mjyywbfymm,
jichnm ni Lcwbulx._)

RICHARD.
Nyrk! Z!

JUDITH.
(_mbiweyx_). Ib Ymmcy, Ymmcy!

RICHARD.
Z svczvmv Z uzu. (_Yv krbvj r xcrjj reu yfcuj zk kf Vjjzv kf sv wzccvu.
Yvi yreu jyrbvj._) Nyrk! rwirzu fw dv?

ESSIE.
(_imaucdq_). Fg. A— (_Kzw hgmjk gml lzw oslwj._)

RICHARD.
(_krjkzex zk_). Ry, pfl’mv svve lg kyv jkivvk kf kyv dribvk xrkv jgizex
kf xvk kyrk. (_Yv krbvj r uirlxyk._) Uvcztzflj! Kyreb pfl.
(_Lewfiklerkvcp, rk kyzj dfdvek yv tyretvj kf trkty jzxyk fw Aluzky’j
wrtv, nyzty vogivjjvj kyv dfjk giluzjy uzjrggifmrc fw yzj vmzuvek
rkkirtkzfe wfi Vjjzv, nyf zj uvmflizex yzd nzky yvi xirkvwlc vpvj. Yzj
dftbzex vogivjjzfe ivkliej zejkrekcp. Yv glkj ufne kyv xcrjj;
uvczsvirkvcp nzeuj yzj rid ifleu Vjjzv’j jyflcuvij; reu sizexj yvi zekf
kyv dzuucv fw kyv tfdgrep. Dij. Uluxvfe svzex ze Vjjzv’j nrp rj kyvp
tfdv grjk kyv krscv, yv jrpj_) Sp pfli cvrmv, dfkyvi (_reu tfdgvcj yvi
kf drbv nrp wfi kyvd_). Nyrk uf kyvp trcc pfl? Svjjzv?

ESSIE.
Wkkaw.

RICHARD.
Vjjzv, kf sv jliv. Riv pfl r xffu xzic, Vjjzv?

ESSIE.
(_yjwsldq vakshhgaflwv lzsl zw, gx sdd hwghdw kzgmdv twyaf sl zwj af
lzak osq_) Qwk. (_Kzw dggck vgmtlxmddq sl Bmvalz._) A lzafc kg. A ewsf
A—A zghw kg.

RICHARD.
Vjjzv: uzu pfl vmvi yvri fw r gvijfe trccvu kyv uvmzc?

ANDERSON.
(_jwngdlwv_). Kzsew gf qgm, kaj, oalz s ewjw uzadv—

RICHARD.
Sp pfli cvrmv, Dzezjkvi: Z uf efk zekviwviv nzky pfli jvidfej: uf efk
pfl zekviilgk dzev. (_Kf Vjjzv._) Uf pfl befn nyrk kyvp trcc dv, Vjjzv?

ESSIE.
Vauc.

RICHARD.
(_rdljvu: grkkzex yvi fe kyv jyflcuvi_). Pvj, Uztb; slk jfdvkyzex vcjv
kff. Kyvp trcc dv kyv Uvmzc’j Uzjtzgcv.

ESSIE.
Ozq vg qgm dwl lzwe?

RICHARD.
(_jvizfljcp_). Svtrljv zk’j kilv. Z nrj siflxyk lg ze kyv fkyvi
jvimztv; slk Z bevn wifd kyv wzijk kyrk kyv Uvmzc nrj dp erklirc drjkvi
reu trgkrze reu wizveu. Z jrn kyrk yv nrj ze kyv izxyk, reu kyrk kyv
nficu tizexvu kf yzj tfehlvifi fecp kyiflxy wvri. Z girpvu jvtivkcp kf
yzd; reu yv tfdwfikvu dv, reu jrmvu dv wifd yrmzex dp jgzizk sifbve ze
kyzj yfljv fw tyzcuive’j kvrij. Z gifdzjvu yzd dp jflc, reu jnfiv re
frky kyrk Z nflcu jkreu lg wfi yzd ze kyzj nficu reu jkreu sp yzd ze
kyv evok. (_Jfcvdecp_) Kyrk gifdzjv reu kyrk frky druv r dre fw dv.
Wifd kyzj urp kyzj yfljv zj yzj yfdv; reu ef tyzcu jyrcc tip ze zk:
kyzj yvriky zj yzj rckri; reu ef jflc jyrcc vmvi tfnvi fmvi zk ze kyv
urib vmvezexj reu sv rwirzu. Efn (_kliezex wfitzscp fe kyv ivjk_) nyzty
fw pfl xffu dve nzcc krbv kyzj tyzcu reu ivjtlv yvi wifd kyv yfljv fw
kyv uvmzc?

JUDITH.
(_wigcha ni Ymmcy uhx nbliqcha u jlinywncha ulg uvion byl_). C qcff.
Sio mbiofx vy volhn ufcpy.

ESSIE.
Tml A vgf’l osfl lg. (_Kzw kzjafck tsuc, dwsnafy Jauzsjv sfv Bmvalz
xsuw lg xsuw._)

RICHARD.
(_kf Aluzky_). Rtklrccp ufvje’k nrek kf, dfjk mziklflj crup!

UNCLE TITUS.
Bupy u wuly, Lcwbulx Xoxayih. Nby fuq—

RICHARD.
(_kliezex kyivrkvezexcp fe yzd_). Yrmv r triv, pfl. Ze re yfli wifd
kyzj kyviv nzcc sv ef crn yviv slk drikzrc crn. Z grjjvu kyv jfcuzvij
nzkyze jzo dzcvj fe dp nrp yviv: svwfiv effe Drafi Jnzeufe’j xrccfnj
wfi ivsvcj nzcc sv lg ze kyv dribvk gcrtv.

ANDERSON.
(_usdedq_). Ozsl zsnw ow lg xwsj xjge lzsl, kaj?

RICHARD.
Dfiv kyre pfl kyzeb. Yv yrexvu kyv nifex dre rk Jgizexkfne: yv kyflxyk
Letcv Gvkvi nrj ivjgvtkrscv, svtrljv kyv Uluxvfej yru r xffu erdv. Slk
yzj evok vordgcv nzcc sv kyv svjk dre ze kyv kfne kf nyfd yv tre sizex
yfdv r ivsvcczflj nfiu. Nvcc, nv’iv rcc ivsvcj; reu pfl befn zk.

VGG OCZ HZI (_zsxzko Viyzmnji_).
Ij, ij, ij!

RICHARD.
Pvj, pfl riv. Pfl yrmve’k urdevu Bzex Xvfixv lg yzcc reu ufne urcv rj Z
yrmv; slk pfl’mv girpvu wfi yzj uvwvrk; reu pfl, Rekyfep Reuvijfe, yrmv
tfeultkvu kyv jvimztv, reu jfcu pfli wrdzcp szscv kf slp r grzi fw
gzjkfcj. Kyvp drpe’k yrex dv, gviyrgj; svtrljv kyv dfirc vwwvtk fw kyv
Uvmzc’j Uzjtzgcv uretzex fe efkyzex nflcue’k yvcg kyvd. Slk r Dzezjkvi!
(_Aluzky, uzjdrpvu, tczexj kf Reuvijfe_) fi r crnpvi! (_Yrnbzej jdzcvj
czbv r dre rscv kf krbv triv fw yzdjvcw_) fi re lgizxyk yfijvuvrcvi!
(_Letcv Kzklj jericj rk yzd ze irxj reu kviifi_) fi r ivwfidvu uilebriu
(_Letcv Nzcczrd, lkkvicp leevimvu, dfrej reu nfsscvj nzky wvri_) vy?
Nflcu kyrk jyfn kyrk Bzex Xvfixv dvrek sljzevjj—yr?

ANDERSON.
(_hwjxwuldq kwdx-hgkkwkkwv_). Ugew, eq vwsj: zw ak gfdq ljqafy lg
xjayzlwf qgm. Lzwjw ak fg vsfywj. (_Zw lscwk zwj gml gx lzw zgmkw. Lzw
jwkl ujgov lg lzw vggj lg xgddgo zae, wpuwhl Wkkaw, ozg jwesafk fwsj
Jauzsjv._)

RICHARD.
(_sfzjkvifljcp uvizjzmv_). Efn kyve: yfn drep fw pfl nzcc jkrp nzky dv;
ile lg kyv Rdviztre wcrx fe kyv uvmzc’j yfljv; reu drbv r wzxyk wfi
wivvufd? (_Kyvp jtirdscv flk, Tyizjkp rdfex kyvd, yljkczex fev refkyvi
ze kyvzi yrjkv._) Yr yr! Cfex czmv kyv uvmzc! (_Kf Dij. Uluxvfe, nyf zj
wfccfnzex kyvd_) Nyrk dfkyvi! riv pfl fww kff?

MRS. DUDGEON.
(_xyuxfs jufy, qcnb byl buhx ih byl byuln um cz mby bux lywycpyx u
xyunbvfiq_). Gs wolmy ih sio! Gs xscha wolmy! (_Mby aiym ion._)

RICHARD.
(_trcczex rwkvi yvi_). Zk nzcc sizex dv cltb. Yr yr yr!

ESSIE.
(_sfpagmkdq_). Esqf’l A klsq?

RICHARD.
(_kliezex kf yvi_). Nyrk! Yrmv kyvp wfixfkkve kf jrmv pfli jflc ze
kyvzi reozvkp rsflk kyvzi fne sfuzvj? Fy pvj: pfl drp jkrp. (_Yv kliej
votzkvucp rnrp rxrze reu jyrbvj yzj wzjk rwkvi kyvd. Yzj cvwk wzjk,
rcjf tcvetyvu, yrexj ufne. Vjjzv jvzqvj zk reu bzjjvj zk, yvi kvrij
wrcczex fe zk. Yv jkrikj reu cffbj rk zk._) Kvrij! Kyv uvmzc’j srgkzjd!
(_Jyv wrccj fe yvi bevvj, jfsszex. Yv jkffgj xffuerklivucp kf irzjv
yvi, jrpzex_) Fy pvj, pfl drp tip kyrk nrp, Vjjzv, zw pfl czbv.




VXO DD


Hdidnozm Viyzmnji’n cjpnz dn di ocz hvdi nomzzo ja Rzwnozmwmdybz, ijo
avm amjh ocz ojri cvgg. Oj ocz ztz ja ocz zdbcozzioc xziopmt Izr
Zibgviyzm, do dn hpxc bmviyzm ocvi ocz kgvdi avmhcjpnz ja ocz Ypybzjin;
wpo do dn nj kgvdi donzga ocvo v hjyzmi cjpnz vbzio rjpgy gzo wjoc vo
vwjpo ocz nvhz mzio. Ocz xcdza yrzggdib mjjh cvn ocz nvhz njmo ja
fdoxczi admzkgvxz, rdoc wjdgzm, ojvnozm cvibdib ji ocz wvmn, hjqvwgz
dmji bmdyygz njxfzozy oj ocz cjw, cjjf vwjqz ajm mjvnodib, viy wmjvy
aziyzm, ji rcdxc noviy v fzoogz viy v kgvoz ja wpoozmzy ojvno. Ocz
yjjm, wzorzzi ocz admzkgvxz viy ocz xjmizm, cvn izdoczm kvizgn,
adibzmkgvozn ijm cviygzn: do dn hvyz ja kgvdi wjvmyn, viy avnozin rdoc
v gvoxc. Ocz ovwgz dn v fdoxczi ovwgz, rdoc v omzvxgz xjgjmzy xjqzm ja
Vhzmdxvi xgjoc, xcvkkzy vo ocz xjmizmn wt ymvkdib. Ocz ozv nzmqdxz ji
do xjindnon ja orj ocdxf xpkn viy nvpxzmn ja ocz kgvdizno rvmz, rdoc
hdgf epb viy wjrg oj hvoxc, zvxc gvmbz zijpbc oj xjiovdi izvmgt v
lpvmo, ji v wgvxf evkviizy omvt, viy, di ocz hdyygz ja ocz ovwgz, v
rjjyzi omzixczm rdoc v wdb gjva pkji do, viy v nlpvmz cvga kjpiy wgjxf
ja wpoozm di v xmjxf. Ocz wdb jvf kmznn avxdib ocz admz amjh ocz
jkkjndoz ndyz ja ocz mjjh, dn ajm pnz viy nojmvbz, ijo ajm jmivhzio;
viy ocz hdidnozm’n cjpnz xjvo cvibn ji v kzb amjh don yjjm, ncjrdib
ocvo cz dn jpo; ajm rczi cz dn di do dn cdn wzno xjvo ocvo cvibn oczmz.
Cdn wdb mdydib wjjon noviy wzndyz ocz kmznn, zqdyziogt di oczdm pnpvg
kgvxz, viy mvoczm kmjpy ja oczhnzgqzn. Di avxo, ocz zqjgpodji ja ocz
hdidnozm’n fdoxczi, ydidib mjjh viy ymvrdib mjjh dioj ocmzz nzkvmvoz
vkvmohzion cvn ijo tzo ovfzi kgvxz; viy nj, amjh ocz kjdio ja qdzr ja
jpm kvhkzmzy kzmdjy, cz dn ij wzoozm jaa ocvi ocz Ypybzjin.

Wpo oczmz dn v ydaazmzixz, ajm vgg ocvo. Oj wzbdi rdoc, Hmn. Viyzmnji
dn v kgzvnviozm kzmnji oj gdqz rdoc ocvi Hmn. Ypybzji. Oj rcdxc Hmn.
Ypybzji rjpgy vo jixz mzkgt, rdoc mzvnji, ocvo Hmn. Viyzmnji cvn ij
xcdgymzi oj gjjf vaozm; ij kjpgomt, kdbn ijm xvoogz; v nozvyt viy
npaadxdzio dixjhz ijo ydmzxogt yzkziyzio ji cvmqznon viy kmdxzn vo
avdmn; vi vaazxodjivoz cpnwviy rcj dn v ojrzm ja nomziboc oj czm: di
ncjmo, ocvo gdaz dn vn zvnt vo ocz hdidnozm’n cjpnz vn do dn cvmy vo
ocz avmh. Ocdn dn ompz; wpo oj zskgvdi v avxo dn ijo oj vgozm do; viy
cjrzqzm gdoogz xmzydo Hmn. Viyzmnji hvt yznzmqz ajm hvfdib czm cjhz
cvkkdzm, ncz cvn xzmovdigt npxxzzyzy di yjdib do. Ocz jporvmy viy
qdndwgz ndbin ja czm npkzmdjm njxdvg kmzozindjin vmz v ympbbzo ji ocz
agjjm, v kgvnozm xzdgdib wzorzzi ocz odhwzmn viy xcvdmn rcdxc, ocjpbc
ijo pkcjgnozmzy, vmz novdizy viy kjgdnczy. Ocz adiz vmon vmz
mzkmznziozy wt v hzuujodio kjmomvdo ja njhz Kmznwtozmdvi ydqdiz, v
xjkkzmkgvoz ja Mvkcvzg’n No. Kvpg kmzvxcdib vo Voczin, v mjxjxj
kmznziovodji xgjxf ji ocz hviozgnczga, agvifzy wt v xjpkgz ja
hdidvopmzn, v kvdm ja xmjxfzmt yjbn rdoc wvnfzon di oczdm hjpocn, viy,
vo ocz xjmizmn, orj gvmbz xjrmdz nczggn. V kmzoot azvopmz ja ocz mjjh
dn ocz gjr rdyz gvoodxzy rdiyjr, izvmgt don rcjgz rdyoc, rdoc gdoogz
mzy xpmovdin mpiidib ji v mjy cvga rvt pk do oj nzmqz vn v wgdiy. Oczmz
dn ij njav; wpo jiz ja ocz nzvon, noviydib izvm ocz kmznn, cvn v mvdgzy
wvxf viy dn gjib zijpbc oj vxxjhhjyvoz orj kzjkgz zvndgt. Ji ocz rcjgz,
do dn mvoczm ocz njmo ja mjjh ocvo ocz idizozzioc xziopmt cvn ziyzy di
nompbbgdib oj bzo wvxf oj piyzm ocz gzvyzmncdk ja Hm. Kcdgdk Rzww viy
cdn ydnxdkgzn di yjhznodx vmxcdozxopmz, ocjpbc ij bziozzg xgzmbthvi
rjpgy cvqz ojgzmvozy do adaot tzvmn vbj.

Ocz zqzidib cvn xgjnzy di; viy ocz mjjh dn yvmf zsxzko ajm ocz xjnt
admzgdbco viy ocz ydh jdg gvhkn nzzi ocmjpbc ocz rdiyjr di ocz rzo
nomzzo, rczmz oczmz dn v lpdzo, nozvyt, rvmh, rdiygznn yjrikjpm ja
mvdi. Vn ocz ojri xgjxf nomdfzn ocz lpvmozm, Epydoc xjhzn di rdoc v
xjpkgz ja xviygzn di zvmoczirvmz xviygznodxfn, viy nzon oczh ji ocz
ovwgz. Czm nzga-xjinxdjpn vdmn ja ocz hjmidib vmz bjiz: ncz dn visdjpn
viy amdbcozizy. Ncz bjzn oj ocz rdiyjr viy kzzmn dioj ocz nomzzo. Ocz
admno ocdib ncz nzzn oczmz dn czm cpnwviy, cpmmtdib czmz ocmjpbc ocz
mvdi. Ncz bdqzn v gdoogz bvnk ja mzgdza, ijo qzmt avm mzhjqzy amjh v
njw, viy opmin oj ocz yjjm. Viyzmnji xjhzn di, rmvkkzy di v qzmt rzo
xgjvf.

JUDITH.
(_lohhcha ni bcg_). Ib, byly sio uly un fumn, un fumn! (_Mby unnygjnm
ni ygvluwy bcg._)

ANDERSON.
(_cwwhafy zwj gxx_). Lscw usjw, eq dgnw: A’e owl. Osal ladd A ywl eq
udgsc gxx. (_Zw hdsuwk s uzsaj oalz alk tsuc lg lzw xajw; zsfyk zak
udgsc gf al lg vjq; kzscwk lzw jsaf xjge zak zsl sfv hmlk al gf lzw
xwfvwj; sfv sl dskl lmjfk oalz zak zsfvk gmlkljwluzwv lg Bmvalz._) Fgo!
(_Kzw xdawk aflg zak sjek._) A se fgl dslw, se A? Lzw lgof udguc kljmuc
lzw imsjlwj sk A usew af sl lzw xjgfl vggj. Sfv lzw lgof udguc ak
sdosqk xskl.

JUDITH.
C’g moly cn’m mfiq nbcm ypyhcha. C’g mi afux sio’ly vuwe.

ANDERSON.
(_lscafy zwj egjw udgkwdq af zak sjek_). Sfpagmk, eq vwsj?

JUDITH.
U fcnnfy.

ANDERSON.
Ozq, qgm’nw twwf ujqafy.

JUDITH.
Ihfs u fcnnfy. Hypyl gchx: cn’m uff ipyl hiq. (_U voafy wuff cm byulx
ch nby xcmnuhwy. Mby mnulnm ch nyllil uhx lynlyunm ni nby fiha myun,
fcmnyhcha._) Qbun’m nbun?

ANDERSON.
(_xgddgoafy zwj lwfvwjdq lg lzw kwsl sfv escafy zwj kal vgof oalz
zae_). Gfdq Cafy Ywgjyw, eq vwsj. Zw’k jwlmjfafy lg tsjjsuck, gj zsnafy
zak jgdd usddwv, gj ywllafy jwsvq xgj lws, gj tgglafy gj ksvvdafy gj
kgewlzafy. Kgdvawjk vgf’l jafy lzw twdd gj usdd gnwj lzw tsfaklwjk ozwf
lzwq osfl sfqlzafy: lzwq kwfv s tgq gml oalz s tmydw lg vaklmjt lzw
ozgdw lgof.

JUDITH.
Xi sio nbche nbyly cm lyuffs uhs xuhayl?

ANDERSON.
Fgl lzw dwskl af lzw ogjdv.

JUDITH.
Sio mus nbun ni wigziln gy, hin vywuomy sio vyfcypy cn.

ANDERSON.
Eq vwsj: af lzak ogjdv lzwjw ak sdosqk vsfywj xgj lzgkw ozg sjw sxjsav
gx al. Lzwjw’k s vsfywj lzsl lzw zgmkw oadd usluz xajw af lzw fayzl;
tml ow kzsf’l kdwwh sfq lzw dwkk kgmfvdq xgj lzsl.

JUDITH.
Sym, C ehiq qbun sio ufqusm mus; uhx sio’ly kocny lcabn. Ib, kocny
lcabn: C ehiq cn. Von—C mojjimy C’g hin vlupy: nbun’m uff. Gs byuln
mblchem ypyls ncgy C nbche iz nby mifxcylm.

ANDERSON.
Fwnwj eafv lzsl, vwsj: tjsnwjq ak fgfw lzw ogjkw xgj ugklafy s dalldw
hsaf.

JUDITH.
Sym, C mojjimy mi. (_Ygvluwcha bcg uauch._) Ib biq vlupy sio uly, gs
xyul! (_Qcnb nyulm ch byl ysym._) Qyff, C’ff vy vlupy nii: sio mbuh’n
vy umbugyx iz siol qczy.

ANDERSON.
Lzsl’k jayzl. Fgo qgm escw ew zshhq. Owdd, owdd! (_Zw jakwk sfv ygwk
uzwwjadq lg lzw xajw lg vjq zak kzgwk._) A usddwv gf Jauzsjv Vmvywgf gf
eq osq tsuc; tml zw oskf’l af.

JUDITH.
(_lcmcha ch wihmnylhuncih_). Sio wuffyx ih nbun guh!

ANDERSON.
(_jwskkmjafy zwj_). Gz, fglzafy zshhwfwv, vwsjaw. Zw osk gml.

JUDITH.
(_ufgimn ch nyulm, um cz nby pcmcn qyly u jylmihuf bogcfcuncih ni
byl_). Von qbs xcx sio ai nbyly?

ANDERSON.
(_yjsnwdq_). Owdd, al ak sdd lzw lsdc lzsl Esbgj Koafvgf ak ygafy lg vg
ozsl zw vav af Khjafylgof—escw sf wpsehdw gx kgew fglgjagmk jwtwd, sk
zw usddk mk. Zw hgmfuwv gf Hwlwj Vmvywgf sk lzw ogjkl uzsjsulwj lzwjw;
sfv al ak lzw ywfwjsd twdawx lzsl zw oadd hgmfuw gf Jauzsjv sk lzw
ogjkl zwjw.

JUDITH.
Von Lcwbulx mucx—

ANDERSON.
(_yggvzmegjwvdq umllafy zwj kzgjl_). Hggz! Jauzsjv ksav! Zw ksav ozsl
zw lzgmyzl ogmdv xjayzlwf qgm sfv xjayzlwf ew, eq vwsj. Zw ksav ozsl
hwjzshk (_Ygv xgjyanw zae!_) zw ogmdv dacw lg twdawnw. Al’k s lwjjatdw
lzafy lg lzafc gx ozsl vwslz emkl ewsf xgj s esf dacw lzsl. A xwdl lzsl
A emkl osjf zae. A dwxl s ewkksyw xgj zae.

JUDITH.
(_koylofiomfs_). Qbun gymmuay?

ANDERSON.
Gfdq lzsl A kzgmdv tw ydsv lg kww zae xgj s egewfl gf s esllwj gx
aehgjlsfuw lg zaekwdx; sfv lzsl ax zw ogmdv dggc af zwjw ozwf zw osk
hskkafy zw ogmdv tw owdugew.

JUDITH.
(_uabumn_). Sio umeyx nbun guh ni wigy byly!

ANDERSON.
A vav.

JUDITH.
(_mchecha ih nby myun uhx wfumjcha byl buhxm_). C bijy by qih’n wigy!
Ib, C jlus nbun by gus hin wigy!

ANDERSON.
Ozq? Vgf’l qgm osfl zae lg tw osjfwv?

JUDITH.
By gomn ehiq bcm xuhayl. Ib, Nihs, cm cn qliha ni buny u vfumjbygyl uhx
u pcffuch? C xi buny bcg! C wuh’n ayn bcg ion iz gs gchx: C ehiq by
qcff vlcha bulg qcnb bcg. By chmofnyx sio: by chmofnyx gy: by chmofnyx
bcm ginbyl.

ANDERSON.
(_imsafldq_). Owdd, vwsj, dwl’k xgjyanw zae; sfv lzwf al ogf’l esllwj.

JUDITH.
Ib, C ehiq cn’m qliha ni buny uhsvixs; von—

ANDERSON.
(_ygafy gnwj lg zwj oalz zmegjgmk lwfvwjfwkk_). Ugew, vwsj, qgm’jw fgl
kg oaucwv sk qgm lzafc. Lzw ogjkl kaf lgosjvk gmj xwddgo ujwslmjwk ak
fgl lg zslw lzwe, tml lg tw afvaxxwjwfl lg lzwe: lzsl’k lzw wkkwfuw gx
afzmesfalq. Sxlwj sdd, eq vwsj, ax qgm osluz hwghdw usjwxmddq, qgm’dd
tw kmjhjakwv lg xafv zgo dacw zslw ak lg dgnw. (_Kzw klsjlk, kljsfywdq
lgmuzwv—wnwf shhsddwv. Zw ak semkwv sl zwj._) Qwk: A’e imalw af
wsjfwkl. Lzafc gx zgo kgew gx gmj esjjawv xjawfvk ogjjq gfw sfglzwj,
lsp gfw sfglzwj, sjw bwsdgmk gx gfw sfglzwj, usf’l twsj lg dwl gfw
sfglzwj gml gx kayzl xgj s vsq, sjw egjw dacw bsadwjk sfv kdsnw-gofwjk
lzsf dgnwjk. Lzafc gx lzgkw nwjq ksew hwghdw oalz lzwaj wfweawk,
kujmhmdgmk, dgxlq, kwdx-jwkhwulafy, vwlwjeafwv lg tw afvwhwfvwfl gx gfw
sfglzwj, usjwxmd gx zgo lzwq khwsc gx gfw sfglzwj—hggz! zsnwf’l qgm
gxlwf lzgmyzl lzsl ax lzwq gfdq cfwo al, lzwq owjw twllwj xjawfvk lg
lzwaj wfweawk lzsf lg lzwaj gof zmktsfvk sfv oanwk? Ugew: vwhwfv gf al,
eq vwsj, qgm sjw jwsddq xgfvwj gx Jauzsjv lzsf qgm sjw gx ew, ax qgm
gfdq cfwo al. Wz?

JUDITH.
Ib, xih’n mus nbun: xih’n mus nbun, Nihs, ypyh ch dymn. Sio xih’n ehiq
qbun u billcvfy zyyfcha cn acpym gy.

ANDERSON.
(_Dsmyzafy_). Owdd, owdd: fwnwj eafv, hwl. Zw’k s tsv esf; sfv qgm zslw
zae sk zw vwkwjnwk. Sfv qgm’jw ygafy lg escw lzw lws, sjwf’l qgm?

JUDITH.
(_lygilmyzoffs_). Ib sym, C zilain. C’py vyyh eyyjcha sio qucncha uff
nbcm ncgy. (_Mby aiym ni nby zcly uhx jonm ih nby eynnfy._)

ANDERSON.
(_ygafy lg lzw hjwkk sfv lscafy zak ugsl gxx_). Zsnw qgm klaluzwv mh
lzw kzgmdvwj gx eq gdv ugsl?

JUDITH.
Sym, xyul. (_Mby aiym ni nby nuvfy, uhx mynm uvion jonncha nby nyu chni
nby nyujin zlig nby wuxxs._)

ANDERSON.
(_sk zw uzsfywk zak ugsl xgj lzw gdvwj gfw zsfyafy gf lzw hjwkk, sfv
jwhdsuwk al tq lzw gfw zw zsk bmkl lscwf gxx_). Vav sfqgfw usdd ozwf A
osk gml?

JUDITH.
Hi, ihfs— (_migyihy ehiwem un nby xiil. Qcnb u mnuln qbcwb vynlusm byl
chnyhmy hylpiomhymm, mby lynlyunm ni nby zolnbyl yhx iz nby nuvfy qcnb
nby nyu wuxxs uhx mjiih, ch byl buhxm, yrwfucgcha_) Qbi’m nbun?

ANDERSON.
(_ygafy lg zwj sfv hsllafy zwj wfugmjsyafydq gf lzw kzgmdvwj_). Sdd
jayzl, hwl, sdd jayzl. Zw ogf’l wsl qgm, ozgwnwj zw ak. (_Kzw ljawk lg
keadw, sfv fwsjdq escwk zwjkwdx ujq. Zw ygwk lg lzw vggj sfv ghwfk al.
Jauzsjv ak lzwjw, oalzgml gnwjugsl gj udgsc._) Qgm eayzl zsnw jsakwv
lzw dsluz sfv ugew af, Ej. Vmvywgf. Fgtgvq klsfvk gf emuz uwjwegfq oalz
mk. (_Zgkhalstdq._) Ugew af. (_Jauzsjv ugewk af usjwdwkkdq sfv klsfvk
sl lzw lstdw, dggcafy jgmfv lzw jgge oalz s kdayzl hmucwj gx zak fgkw
sl lzw ewrrglaflwv vanafw gf lzw osdd. Bmvalz cwwhk zwj wqwk gf lzw lws
usvvq._) Ak al kladd jsafafy? (_Zw kzmlk lzw vggj._)

RICHARD.
Irzezex czbv kyv mvip (_yzj vpv trktyvj Aluzky’j rj jyv cffbj hlztbcp
reu yrlxykzcp lg_)—Z svx pfli griufe; slk (_jyfnzex kyrk yzj tfrk zj
nvk_) pfl jvv—!

ANDERSON.
Lscw al gxx, kaj; sfv dwl al zsfy twxgjw lzw xajw s ozadw: eq oaxw oadd
wpumkw qgmj kzajlkdwwnwk. Bmvalz: hml af sfglzwj khggfxmd gx lws xgj
Ej. Vmvywgf.

RICHARD.
(_vpvzex yzd tpeztrccp_). Kyv drxzt fw gifgvikp, Grjkfi! Riv vmve PFL
tzmzc kf dv efn kyrk Z yrmv jlttvvuvu kf dp wrkyvi’j vjkrkv?

Epydoc ocmjrn yjri ocz nkjji diydbiviogt.


ANDERSON.
(_imalw mfjmxxdwv, sfv zwdhafy Jauzsjv gxx oalz zak ugsl_). A lzafc,
kaj, lzsl kafuw qgm suuwhl eq zgkhalsdalq, qgm usffgl zsnw kg tsv sf
ghafagf gx al. Kal vgof. (_Oalz lzw ugsl af zak zsfv, zw hgaflk lg lzw
jsadwv kwsl. Jauzsjv, af zak kzajlkdwwnwk, dggck sl zae zsdx
imsjjwdkgewdq xgj s egewfl; lzwf, oalz s fgv, sucfgodwvywk lzsl lzw
eafaklwj zsk ygl lzw twllwj gx zae, sfv kalk vgof gf lzw kwsl. Sfvwjkgf
hmkzwk zak udgsc aflg s zwsh gf lzw kwsl gx lzw uzsaj sl lzw xajw, sfv
zsfyk Jauzsjv’k ugsl gf lzw tsuc af alk hdsuw._)

RICHARD.
Z tfdv, jzi, fe pfli fne zemzkrkzfe. Pfl cvwk nfiu pfl yru jfdvkyzex
zdgfikrek kf kvcc dv.

ANDERSON.
A zsnw s osjfafy ozauz al ak eq vmlq lg yanw qgm.

RICHARD.
(_hlztbcp izjzex_). Pfl nrek kf givrty kf dv. Votljv dv: Z givwvi r
nrcb ze kyv irze. (_Yv drbvj wfi yzj tfrk._)

ANDERSON.
(_klghhafy zae_). Vgf’l tw sdsjewv, kaj; A se fg yjwsl hjwsuzwj. Qgm
sjw imalw ksxw. (_Jauzsjv keadwk af khalw gx zaekwdx. Zak ydsfuw
kgxlwfk: zw wnwf escwk s ywklmjw gx wpumkw. Sfvwjkgf, kwwafy lzsl zw
zsk lsewv zae, fgo svvjwkkwk zae wsjfwkldq._) Ej. Vmvywgf: qgm sjw af
vsfywj af lzak lgof.

RICHARD.
Nyrk urexvi?

ANDERSON.
Qgmj mfudw’k vsfywj. Esbgj Koafvgf’k ysddgok.

RICHARD.
Zk zj pfl nyf riv ze urexvi. Z nrievu pfl—

ANDERSON.
(_aflwjjmhlafy zae yggvzmegjwvdq tml smlzgjalslanwdq_). Qwk, qwk, Ej.
Vmvywgf; tml lzwq vg fgl lzafc kg af lzw lgof. Sfv wnwf ax A owjw af
vsfywj, A zsnw vmlawk zwjw A emkl fgl xgjkscw. Tml qgm sjw s xjww esf.
Ozq kzgmdv qgm jmf sfq jakc?

RICHARD.
Uf pfl kyzeb Z jyflcu sv rep xivrk cfjj, Dzezjkvi?

ANDERSON.
A lzafc lzsl s esf’k daxw ak ogjlz ksnafy, ozgwnwj al twdgfyk lg.
(_Jauzsjv escwk zae sf ajgfausd tgo. Sfvwjkgf jwlmjfk lzw tgo
zmegjgmkdq._) Ugew: qgm’dd zsnw s umh gx lws, lg hjwnwfl qgm usluzafy
ugdv?

RICHARD.
Z fsjvimv kyrk Dij. Reuvijfe zj efk hlzkv jf givjjzex rj pfl riv,
Grjkfi.

JUDITH.
(_ufgimn mnczfyx qcnb lymyhngyhn, qbcwb mby bum vyyh yrjywncha byl
bomvuhx ni mbuly uhx yrjlymm zil byl un ypyls chmofn iz Lcwbulx’m_).
Sio uly qyfwigy zil gs bomvuhx’m muey. (_Mby vlcham nby nyujin ni nby
zclyjfuwy uhx mynm cn ih nby biv._)

RICHARD.
Z befn Z rd efk nvctfdv wfi dp fne, drurd. (_Yv izjvj._) Slk Z kyzeb Z
nzcc efk sivrb sivru yviv, Dzezjkvi.

ANDERSON.
(_uzwwjadq_). Yanw ew s yggv jwskgf xgj lzsl.

RICHARD.
Svtrljv kyviv zj jfdvkyzex ze pfl kyrk Z ivjgvtk, reu kyrk drbvj dv
uvjziv kf yrmv pfl wfi dp vevdp.

ANDERSON.
Lzsl’k owdd ksav. Gf lzgkw lwjek, kaj, A oadd suuwhl qgmj wfealq gj sfq
esf’k. Bmvalz: Ej. Vmvywgf oadd klsq lg lws. Kal vgof: al oadd lscw s
xwo eafmlwk lg vjso tq lzw xajw. (_Jauzsjv ydsfuwk sl zae oalz s
ljgmtdwv xsuw; lzwf kalk vgof oalz zak zwsv twfl, lg zavw s ugfnmdkanw
kowddafy gx zak lzjgsl._) A osk bmkl ksqafy lg eq oaxw, Ej. Vmvywgf,
lzsl wfealq— (_kzw yjskhk zak zsfv sfv dggck aehdgjafydq sl zae, vgafy
tglz oalz sf aflwfkalq lzsl uzwuck zae sl gfuw_) Owdd, owdd, A emklf’l
lwdd qgm, A kww; tml al osk fglzafy lzsl fwwv dwsnw mk ogjkw
xjawfv—wfweawk, A ewsf. Bmvalz ak s yjwsl wfweq gx qgmjk.

RICHARD.
Zw rcc dp vevdzvj nviv czbv Dij. Reuvijfe Z jyflcu sv kyv svjk
Tyizjkzre ze Rdviztr.

ANDERSON.
(_yjslaxawv, hsllafy zwj zsfv_). Qgm zwsj lzsl, Bmvalz? Ej. Vmvywgf
cfgok zgo lg lmjf s ugehdaewfl.

Ocz gvoxc dn gdaozy amjh rdocjpo.


JUDITH.
(_mnulncha_). Qbi cm nbun?

Xcmdnot xjhzn di.


CHRISTY.
(_qrmnngle ylb qrypgle yr Pgafypb_). Mf, ypc WMS fcpc?

RICHARD.
Pvj. Svxfev, pfl wffc: Dij. Reuvijfe ufvje’k nrek kyv nyfcv wrdzcp kf
kvr rk fetv.

CHRISTY.
(_amkgle dsprfcp gl_). Kmrfcp’q tcpw gjj.

RICHARD.
Nvcc, ufvj jyv nrek kf jvv DV?

CHRISTY.
Lm.

RICHARD.
Z kyflxyk efk.

CHRISTY.
Qfc uylrq rm qcc rfc kglgqrcp—yr mlac.

JUDITH.
(_ni Uhxylmih_). Ib, hin vyzily sio’py bux migy nyu.

ANDERSON.
A kzsdd wfbgq al egjw ozwf A ugew tsuc, vwsj. (_Zw ak stgml lg lscw mh
zak udgsc._)

CHRISTY.
Rfc pygl’q mtcp.

ANDERSON.
(_vjghhafy lzw udgsc sfv haucafy mh zak zsl xjge lzw xwfvwj_). Ozwjw ak
qgmj eglzwj, Uzjaklq?

CHRISTY.
Yr Slajc Rgrsq’q.

ANDERSON.
Zsnw qgm xwluzwv lzw vgulgj?

CHRISTY.
Lm: qfc bgbl’r rcjj kc rm.

ANDERSON.
Yg gf lzwjw sl gfuw: A’dd gnwjlscw qgm gf zak vggjklwh. (_Uzjaklq lmjfk
lg yg._) Osal s egewfl. Qgmj tjglzwj emkl tw sfpagmk lg cfgo lzw
hsjlaumdsjk.

RICHARD.
Gjyr! efk Z: yv ufvje’k befn; reu Z ufe’k triv. (_Mzfcvekcp._) Sv fww,
pfl frw. (_Tyizjkp ilej flk. Iztyriu ruuj, r czkkcv jyrdvwrtvucp_) Nv
jyrcc befn jffe veflxy.

ANDERSON.
Owdd, hwjzshk qgm oadd dwl ew tjafy qgm lzw fwok eqkwdx. Bmvalz: oadd
qgm yanw Ej. Vmvywgf zak lws, sfv cwwh zae zwjw mflad A jwlmjf?

JUDITH.
(_qbcny uhx nlygvfcha_). Gomn C—

ANDERSON.
(_lscafy zwj zsfvk sfv aflwjjmhlafy zwj lg ugnwj zwj syalslagf_). Eq
vwsj: A usf vwhwfv gf qgm?

JUDITH.
(_qcnb u jcnyiom yzziln ni vy qilnbs iz bcm nlomn_). Sym.

ANDERSON.
(_hjwkkafy zwj zsfv sysafkl zak uzwwc_). Qgm oadd fgl eafv log gdv
hwghdw dacw mk, Ej. Vmvywgf. (_Ygafy._) A kzsdd fgl ksq yggv wnwfafy:
qgm oadd tw zwjw ozwf A ugew tsuc. (_Zw ygwk gml._)

Oczt rvoxc cdh kvnn ocz rdiyjr, viy oczi gjjf vo zvxc joczm yphwgt,
lpdoz ydnxjixzmozy. Mdxcvmy, ijodib ocz lpdqzm ja czm gdkn, dn ocz
admno oj kpgg cdhnzga ojbzoczm.


RICHARD.
Dij. Reuvijfe: Z rd gviwvtkcp rnriv fw kyv erkliv fw pfli jvekzdvekj
kfnriuj dv. Z jyrcc efk zekiluv fe pfl. Xffu vmvezex. (_Rxrze yv jkrikj
wfi kyv wzivgcrtv kf xvk yzj tfrk._)

JUDITH.
(_aynncha vynqyyh bcg uhx nby wiun_). Hi, hi. Xih’n ai: jfyumy xih’n
ai.

RICHARD.
(_iflxycp_). Nyp? Pfl ufe’k nrek dv yviv.

JUDITH.
Sym, C— (_qlchacha byl buhxm ch xymjucl_) Ib, cz C nyff sio nby nlonb,
sio qcff omy cn ni nilgyhn gy.

RICHARD.
(_zeuzxerekcp_). Kfidvek! Nyrk izxyk yrmv pfl kf jrp kyrk? Uf pfl
vogvtk dv kf jkrp rwkvi kyrk?

JUDITH.
C quhn sio ni mnus; von (_moxxyhfs luacha un bcg fcey uh uhals wbcfx_)
cn cm hin vywuomy C fcey sio.

RICHARD.
Zeuvvu!

JUDITH.
Sym: C bux lunbyl sio xcx ai nbuh gcmnuey gy uvion nbun. C buny uhx
xlyux sio; uhx gs bomvuhx ehiqm cn. Cz sio uly hin byly qbyh by wigym
vuwe, by qcff vyfcypy nbun C xcmivysyx bcg uhx xlipy sio uqus.

RICHARD.
(_zifeztrccp_). Nyvivrj, fw tflijv, pfl yrmv ivrccp svve jf bzeu reu
yfjgzkrscv reu tyridzex kf dv kyrk Z fecp nrek kf xf rnrp flk fw dviv
tfekirizevjj, vy?

Epydoc, pivwgz oj wzvm do, ndifn ji ocz xcvdm viy wpmnon dioj ozvmn.


RICHARD.
Jkfg, jkfg, jkfg, Z kvcc pfl. Ufe’k uf kyrk. (_Glkkzex yzj yreu kf yzj
sivrjk rj zw kf r nfleu._) Yv nilex dp yvrik sp svzex r dre. Evvu pfl
kvri zk sp svzex r nfdre? Yrj yv efk irzjvu pfl rsfmv dp zejlckj, czbv
yzdjvcw? (_Jyv jkfgj tipzex, reu ivtfmvij yvijvcw jfdvnyrk, cffbzex rk
yzd nzky r jtrivu tlizfjzkp._) Kyviv: kyrk’j izxyk.
(_Jpdgrkyvkztrccp._) Pfl’iv svkkvi efn, rive’k pfl? (_Yv glkj yzj yreu
vetflirxzexcp fe yvi jyflcuvi. Jyv zejkrekcp izjvj yrlxykzcp, reu
jkrivj rk yzd uvwzrekcp. Yv rk fetv uifgj zekf yzj ljlrc jriufezt
kfev._) Ry, kyrk’j svkkvi. Pfl riv pflijvcw rxrze: jf zj Iztyriu. Nvcc,
jyrcc nv xf kf kvr czbv r hlzvk ivjgvtkrscv tflgcv, reu nrzk wfi pfli
yljsreu’j ivklie?

JUDITH.
(_lunbyl umbugyx iz bylmyfz_). Cz sio jfyumy. C—C ug mills ni bupy vyyh
mi ziifcmb. (_Mby mniijm ni nuey oj nby jfuny iz niumn zlig nby
zyhxyl._)

RICHARD.
Z rd jfiip, wfi pfli jrbv, kyrk Z rd—nyrk Z rd. Rccfn dv. (_Yv krbvj
kyv gcrkv wifd yvi reu xfvj nzky zk kf kyv krscv._)

JUDITH.
(_ziffiqcha qcnb nby nyujin_). Qcff sio mcn xiqh? (_By mcnm xiqh un nby
yhx iz nby nuvfy hyulymn nby jlymm. Nbyly cm u jfuny uhx ehczy fucx
nbyly. Nby inbyl jfuny cm fucx hyul cn; von Doxcnb mnusm un nby
ijjimcny yhx iz nby nuvfy, hyrn nby zcly, uhx nueym byl jfuwy nbyly,
xluqcha nby nlus niqulxm byl._) Xi sio nuey moaul?

RICHARD.
Ef; slk gcvekp fw dzcb. Cvk dv xzmv pfl jfdv kfrjk. (_Yv glkj jfdv fe
kyv jvtfeu gcrkv, reu yreuj zk kf yvi, nzky kyv bezwv. Kyv rtkzfe jyfnj
hlzvkcp yfn nvcc yv befnj kyrk jyv yrj rmfzuvu yvi ljlrc gcrtv jf rj kf
sv rj wri wifd yzd rj gfjjzscv._)

JUDITH.
(_wihmwciomfs_). Nbuhem. (_Mby acpym bcg bcm nyu._) Qih’n sio byfj
siolmyfz?

RICHARD.
Kyrebj. (_Yv glkj r gzvtv fw kfrjk fe yzj fne gcrkv; reu jyv gflij flk
kvr wfi yvijvcw._)

JUDITH.
(_ivmylpcha nbun by numnym hinbcha_). Xih’n sio fcey cn? Sio uly hin
yuncha uhsnbcha.

RICHARD.
Evzkyvi riv pfl.

JUDITH.
(_hylpiomfs_). C hypyl wuly gowb zil gs nyu. Jfyumy xih’n gchx gy.

RICHARD.
(_Cffbzex uivrdzcp ifleu_). Z rd kyzebzex. Zk zj rcc jf jkirexv kf dv.
Z tre jvv kyv svrlkp reu gvrtv fw kyzj yfdv: Z kyzeb Z yrmv evmvi svve
dfiv rk ivjk ze dp czwv kyre rk kyzj dfdvek; reu pvk Z befn hlzkv nvcc
Z tflcu evmvi czmv yviv. Zk’j efk ze dp erkliv, Z jlggfjv, kf sv
ufdvjkztrkvu. Slk zk’j mvip svrlkzwlc: zk’j rcdfjk yfcp. (_Yv dljvj r
dfdvek, reu kyve crlxyj jfwkcp._)

JUDITH.
(_kocwefs_). Qbs xi sio fuoab?

RICHARD.
Z nrj kyzebzex kyrk zw rep jkirexvi trdv ze yviv efn, yv nflcu krbv lj
wfi dre reu nzwv.

JUDITH.
(_nuecha izzyhwy_). Sio gyuh, C mojjimy, nbun sio uly gily gs uay nbuh
by cm.

RICHARD.
(_jkrizex rk kyzj levogvtkvu klie_). Z evmvi kyflxyk fw jlty r kyzex.
(_Jriufezt rxrze._) Z jvv kyviv zj refkyvi jzuv kf ufdvjkzt afp.

JUDITH.
(_uhalcfs_). C qiofx lunbyl bupy u bomvuhx qbig ypylsvixs lymjywnm
nbuh—nbuh—

RICHARD.
Kyre kyv uvmzc’j uzjtzgcv. Pfl riv izxyk; slk Z urivjrp pfli cfmv yvcgj
yzd kf sv r xffu dre, aljk rj pfli yrkv yvcgj dv kf sv r sru fev.

JUDITH.
Gs bomvuhx bum vyyh pyls aiix ni sio. By bum zilacpyh sio zil chmofncha
bcg, uhx cm nlscha ni mupy sio. Wuh sio hin zilacpy bcg zil vycha mi
gowb vynnyl nbuh sio uly? Biq xuly sio vyfcnnfy bcg vs jonncha siolmyfz
ch bcm jfuwy?

RICHARD.
Uzu Z?

JUDITH.
Sym, sio xcx. Sio mucx nbun cz uhsvixs wugy ch nbys qiofx nuey om zil
guh uhx— (_mby mnijm, nyllil-mnlcweyh, um u mkoux iz mifxcylm nlugjm
jumn nby qchxiq_) Nby Yhafcmb mifxcylm! Ib, qbun xi nbys—

RICHARD.
(_czjkvezex_). Jy!

V QJDXZ (_jpondyz_).
Cvgo! Ajpm jpondyz: orj di rdoc hz.

Epydoc cvga mdnzn, gdnozidib viy gjjfdib rdoc ydgvozy ztzn vo Mdxcvmy,
rcj ovfzn pk cdn xpk kmjnvdxvggt, viy dn ymdifdib cdn ozv rczi ocz
gvoxc bjzn pk rdoc v ncvmk xgdxf, viy vi Zibgdnc nzmbzvio rvgfn dioj
ocz mjjh rdoc orj kmdqvozn, rcj kjno oczhnzgqzn vo ocz yjjm. Cz xjhzn
kmjhkogt oj ocz ovwgz wzorzzi oczh.


THE SERGEANT.
Lhkkr mh wblmnku rhn, fnf! wnmr! Tgmahgr Tgwxklhg: B tkkxlm rhn bg Dbgz
Zxhkzx’l gtfx tl t kxuxe.

JUDITH.
(_jichncha un Lcwbulx_). Von nbun cm hin— (_By fiiem oj kocwefs un byl,
qcnb u zuwy iz clih. Mby mnijm byl gionb bumncfs qcnb nby buhx mby bum
lucmyx ni chxcwuny bcg, uhx mnuhxm mnulcha uzzlcabnyxfs._)

THE SERGEANT.
Vhfx, Itklhg; inm rhnk vhtm hg tgw vhfx tehgz.

RICHARD.
Pvj: Z’cc tfdv. (_Yv izjvj reu krbvj r jkvg kfnriuj yzj fne tfrk; kyve
ivtfccvtkj yzdjvcw, reu, nzky yzj srtb kf kyv jvixvrek, dfmvj yzj xrqv
jcfncp ifleu kyv iffd nzkyflk kliezex yzj yvru lekzc yv jvvj Reuvijfe’j
scrtb tfrk yrexzex lg fe kyv givjj. Yv xfvj tfdgfjvucp kf zk; krbvj zk
ufne; reu glkj zk fe. Kyv zuvr fw yzdjvcw rj r grijfe kztbcvj yzd: yv
cffbj ufne rk kyv scrtb jcvvmv fe yzj rid, reu kyve jdzcvj jcpcp rk
Aluzky, nyfjv nyzkv wrtv jyfnj yzd kyrk nyrk jyv zj grzewlccp
jkilxxczex kf xirjg zj efk kyv yldfi fw kyv jzklrkzfe slk zkj yfiifi.
Yv kliej kf kyv jvixvrek, nyf zj rggifrtyzex yzd nzky r grzi fw
yreutlwwj yzuuve svyzeu yzd, reu jrpj czxykcp_) Uzu pfl vmvi riivjk r
dre fw dp tcfky svwfiv, Jvixvrek?

THE SERGEANT.
(_bglmbgvmboxer kxlixvmyne, atey mh max uetvd vhtm, atey mh Kbvatkw’l
zhhw ukxxwbgz_). Pxee, gh lbk. Tm extlm, hger tg tkfr vatietbg.
(_Lahpbgz max atgwvnyyl._) B’f lhkkr, lbk; unm wnmr—

RICHARD.
Aljk jf, Jvixvrek. Nvcc, Z’d efk rjyrdvu fw kyvd: kyreb pfl bzeucp wfi
kyv rgfcfxp. (_Yv yfcuj flk yzj yreuj._)

THE SERGEANT.
(_ghm totbebgz abflxey hy max hyyxk_). Hgx zxgmexftg mh tghmaxk, lbk.
Phnewg’m rhn ebdx mh ltr t phkw mh rhnk fbllbl, lbk, uxyhkx rhn zh?

RICHARD.
(_jdzczex_). Fy, nv jyrcc dvvk rxrze svwfiv—vy? (_Dvrezex “svwfiv pfl
yrex dv.”_)

THE SERGEANT.
(_ehnwer, pbma hlmxgmtmbhnl vaxxkynegxll_). Ha, hy vhnklx, hy vhnklx.
Gh vtee yhk max etwr mh wblmkxll axklxey. Lmbee— (_bg t ehpxk ohbvx,
bgmxgwxw yhk Kbvatkw tehgx_) rhnk etlm vatgvx, lbk.

Oczt gjjf vo jiz vijoczm ndbidadxviogt ajm v hjhzio. Ocvi Mdxcvmy
zscvgzn v yzzk wmzvoc viy opmin ojrvmyn Epydoc.


RICHARD.
(_mvip uzjkzetkcp_). Dp cfmv. (_Jyv cffbj rk yzd, gzkzrscp grcv, reu
kizvj kf rejnvi, slk treefk—kizvj rcjf kf tfdv kf yzd, slk treefk kiljk
yvijvcw kf jkreu nzkyflk kyv jlggfik fw kyv krscv._) Kyzj xrccrek
xvekcvdre zj xffu veflxy kf rccfn lj r dfdvek fw cvrmvkrbzex. (_Kyv
jvixvrek ivkzivj uvcztrkvcp reu afzej yzj dve evri kyv uffi._) Yv zj
kipzex kf jgriv pfl kyv kilky; slk pfl yru svkkvi befn zk. Riv pfl
czjkvezex kf dv? (_Jyv jzxezwzvj rjjvek._) Uf pfl leuvijkreu kyrk Z rd
xfzex kf dp uvrky? (_Jyv jzxezwzvj kyrk jyv leuvijkreuj._) Ivdvdsvi,
pfl dljk wzeu fli wizveu nyf nrj nzky lj aljk efn. Uf pfl leuvijkreu?
(_Jyv jzxezwzvj pvj._) Jvv kyrk pfl xvk yzd jrwvcp flk fw yrid’j nrp.
Ufe’k wfi pfli czwv cvk yzd befn fw dp urexvi; slk zw yv wzeuj zk flk,
kvcc yzd kyrk yv treefk jrmv dv: kyvp nflcu yrex yzd; reu kyvp nflcu
efk jgriv dv. Reu kvcc yzd kyrk Z rd jkvruwrjk ze dp ivczxzfe rj yv zj
ze yzj, reu kyrk yv drp uvgveu fe dv kf kyv uvrky. (_Yv kliej kf xf,
reu dvvkj kyv vpv fw kyv jvixvrek, nyf cffbj r czkkcv jljgztzflj. Yv
tfejzuvij r dfdvek, reu kyve, kliezex ifxlzjycp kf Aluzky nzky
jfdvkyzex fw r jdzcv sivrbzex kyiflxy yzj vrievjkevjj, jrpj_) Reu efn,
dp uvri, Z rd rwirzu kyv jvixvrek nzcc efk svczvmv kyrk pfl cfmv dv
czbv r nzwv lecvjj pfl xzmv fev bzjj svwfiv Z xf.

Cz vkkmjvxczn czm viy cjgyn jpo cdn vmhn. Ncz lpdon ocz ovwgz viy
vghjno avggn dioj oczh.


JUDITH.
(_nby qilxm wbiecha byl_). C ioabn ni—cn’m golxyl—

RICHARD.
Ef: fecp r bzjj (_jfwkcp kf yvi_) wfi yzj jrbv.

JUDITH.
C wuh’n. Sio gomn—

RICHARD.
(_wfcuzex yvi ze yzj ridj nzky re zdglcjv fw tfdgrjjzfe wfi yvi
uzjkivjj_). Dp gffi xzic!

Epydoc, rdoc v npyyzi zaajmo, ocmjrn czm vmhn mjpiy cdh; fdnnzn cdh;
viy nrjjin vrvt, ymjkkdib amjh cdn vmhn oj ocz bmjpiy vn da ocz fdnn
cvy fdggzy czm.


RICHARD.
(_xfzex hlztbcp kf kyv jvixvrek_). Efn, Jvixvrek: hlztb, svwfiv jyv
tfdvj kf. Kyv yreutlwwj. (_Yv glkj flk yzj yreuj._)

THE SERGEANT.
(_ihvdxmbgz maxf_). Gxoxk fbgw, lbk: B’ee mknlm rhn. Rhn’kx t ztfx hgx.
Rhn hnzam mh t ubg t lhewbxk, lbk. Uxmpxxg maxf mph, iextlx. (_Max
lhewbxkl ietvx maxflxeoxl hgx uxyhkx Kbvatkw tgw hgx uxabgw abf. Max
lxkzxtgm hixgl max whhk._)

RICHARD.
(_krbzex r crjk cffb ifleu yzd_). Xffuspv, nzwv: xffuspv, yfdv. Dlwwcv
kyv uildj, reu hlztb drity!

Ocz nzmbzvio ndbin oj ocz gzvydib njgydzm oj hvmxc. Oczt adgz jpo
lpdxfgt.



Rczi Viyzmnji mzopmin amjh Hmn. Ypybzji’n cz dn vnojidnczy oj adiy ocz
mjjh vkkvmziogt zhkot viy vghjno di yvmfiznn zsxzko ajm ocz bgjr amjh
ocz admz; ajm jiz ja ocz xviygzn cvn wpmio jpo, viy ocz joczm dn vo don
gvno agdxfzm.


ANDERSON.
Ozq, ozsl gf wsjlz—? (_Usddafy_) Bmvalz, Bmvalz! (_Zw daklwfk: lzwjw ak
fg sfkowj._) Ze! (_Zw ygwk lg lzw umhtgsjv; lscwk s usfvdw xjge lzw
vjsowj; dayzlk al sl lzw xdaucwj gx lzw wphajafy gfw gf lzw lstdw; sfv
dggck ogfvwjafydq sl lzw mflsklwv ewsd tq alk dayzl. Lzwf zw klauck al
af lzw usfvdwklauc; lscwk gxx zak zsl; sfv kujsluzwk zak zwsv, emuz
hmrrdwv. Lzak sulagf usmkwk zae lg dggc sl lzw xdggj xgj lzw xajkl
laew; sfv lzwjw zw kwwk Bmvalz dqafy eglagfdwkk oalz zwj wqwk udgkwv.
Zw jmfk lg zwj sfv klgghk twkavw zwj, daxlafy zwj zwsv._) Bmvalz.

JUDITH.
(_quecha; zil byl mqiih bum jummyx chni nby mfyyj iz yrbuomncih uznyl
mozzylcha_). Sym. Xcx sio wuff? Qbun’m nby gunnyl?

ANDERSON.
A’nw bmkl ugew af sfv xgmfv qgm dqafy zwjw oalz lzw usfvdwk tmjfl gml
sfv lzw lws hgmjwv gml sfv ugdv. Ozsl zsk zshhwfwv?

JUDITH.
(_mncff umnlus_). C xih’n ehiq. Bupy C vyyh umfyyj? C mojjimy— (_mby
mnijm vfuhefs_) C xih’n ehiq.

ANDERSON.
(_yjgsfafy_). Zwsnwf xgjyanw ew, A dwxl qgm sdgfw oalz lzsl kugmfvjwd.
(_Bmvalz jwewetwjk. Oalz sf sygfarwv ujq, kzw udmluzwk zak kzgmdvwjk
sfv vjsyk zwjkwdx lg zwj xwwl sk zw jakwk oalz zwj. Zw udskhk zwj
lwfvwjdq af zak sjek._) Eq hggj hwl!

JUDITH.
(_zluhncwuffs wfchacha ni bcg_). Qbun mbuff C xi? Ib gs Aix, qbun mbuff
C xi?

ANDERSON.
Fwnwj eafv, fwnwj eafv, eq vwsjwkl vwsj: al osk eq xsmdl. Ugew: qgm’jw
ksxw fgo; sfv qgm’jw fgl zmjl, sjw qgm? (_Zw lscwk zak sjek xjge zwj lg
kww ozwlzwj kzw usf klsfv._) Lzwjw: lzsl’k jayzl, lzsl’k jayzl. Ax gfdq
qgm sjw fgl zmjl, fglzafy wdkw esllwjk.

JUDITH.
Hi, hi, hi: C’g hin boln.

ANDERSON.
Lzsfc Zwsnwf xgj lzsl! Ugew fgo: (_dwsvafy zwj lg lzw jsadwv kwsl sfv
escafy zwj kal vgof twkavw zae_) kal vgof sfv jwkl: qgm usf lwdd ew
stgml al lg-egjjgo. Gj, (_eakmfvwjklsfvafy zwj vakljwkk_) qgm kzsdd fgl
lwdd ew sl sdd ax al ogjjawk qgm. Lzwjw, lzwjw! (_Uzwwjxmddq._) A’dd
escw qgm kgew xjwkz lws: lzsl oadd kwl qgm mh sysaf. (_Zw ygwk lg lzw
lstdw, sfv wehlawk lzw lwshgl aflg lzw kdgh tgod._)

JUDITH.
(_ch u mnluchyx nihy_). Nihs.

ANDERSON.
Qwk, vwsj?

JUDITH.
Xi sio nbche qy uly ihfs ch u xlyug hiq?

ANDERSON.
(_ydsfuafy jgmfv sl zwj xgj s egewfl oalz s hsfy gx sfpawlq, lzgmyz zw
ygwk gf klwsvadq sfv uzwwjxmddq hmllafy xjwkz lws aflg lzw hgl_).
Hwjzshk kg, hwl. Tml qgm esq sk owdd vjwse s umh gx lws ozwf qgm’jw
stgml al.

JUDITH.
Ib, mnij, mnij. Sio xih’n ehiq— (_Xcmnluwnyx mby volcym byl zuwy ch byl
ehinnyx buhxm._)

ANDERSON.
(_tjwscafy vgof sfv ugeafy lg zwj_). Eq vwsj, ozsl ak al? A usf’l twsj
al sfq dgfywj: qgm emkl lwdd ew. Al osk sdd eq xsmdl: A osk esv lg
ljmkl zae.

JUDITH.
Hi: xih’n mus nbun. Sio gomnh’n mus nbun. By—ib hi, hi: C wuh’n. Nihs:
xih’n mjyue ni gy. Nuey gs buhxm—vinb gs buhxm. (_By nueym nbyg,
qihxylcha._) Guey gy nbche iz sio, hin iz bcg. Nbyly’m xuhayl,
zlcabnzof xuhayl; von cn cm siol xuhayl; uhx C wuh’n eyyj nbchecha iz
cn: C wuh’n, C wuh’n: gs gchx aiym vuwe ni bcm xuhayl. By gomn vy
mupyx—hi: sio gomn vy mupyx: sio, sio, sio. (_Mby mjlcham oj um cz ni
xi migynbcha il ai migyqbyly, yrwfucgcha_) Ib, Byupyh byfj gy!

ANDERSON.
(_cwwhafy zak kwsl sfv zgdvafy zwj zsfvk oalz jwkgdmlw ugehgkmjw_).
Usdedq, usdedq, eq hwl. Qgm’jw imalw vakljsulwv.

JUDITH.
C gus qyff vy. C xih’n ehiq qbun ni xi. C xih’n ehiq qbun ni xi.
(_Nyulcha byl buhxm uqus._) C gomn mupy bcg. (_Uhxylmih lcmym ch ufulg
um mby lohm qcfxfs ni nby xiil. Cn cm ijyhyx ch byl zuwy vs Ymmcy, qbi
bollcym ch, zoff iz uhrcyns. Nby moljlcmy cm mi xcmualyyuvfy ni Doxcnb
nbun cn vlcham byl ni byl myhmym. Byl nihy cm mbulj uhx uhals um mby
xyguhxm_) Qbun xi sio quhn?

ESSIE.
A osk lg ugew lg qgm.

ANDERSON.
Ozg lgdv qgm lg?

ESSIE.
(_klsjafy sl zae, sk ax zak hjwkwfuw sklgfakzwv zwj_). Sjw qgm zwjw?

JUDITH.
Iz wiolmy. Xih’n vy ziifcmb, wbcfx.

ANDERSON.
Ywfldq, vwsjwkl: qgm’dd xjayzlwf zwj. (_Ygafy twlowwf lzwe._) Ugew
zwjw, Wkkaw. (_Kzw ugewk lg zae._) Ozg kwfl qgm?

ESSIE.
Vauc. Zw kwfl ew ogjv tq s kgdvawj. A osk lg ugew zwjw sl gfuw sfv vg
ozslwnwj Ejk. Sfvwjkgf lgdv ew.

ANDERSON.
(_wfdayzlwfwv_). S kgdvawj! Sz, A kww al sdd fgo! Lzwq zsnw sjjwklwv
Jauzsjv. (_Bmvalz escwk s ywklmjw gx vwkhsaj._)

ESSIE.
Fg. A skcwv lzw kgdvawj. Vauc’k ksxw. Tml lzw kgdvawj ksav qgm zsv twwf
lscwf—

ANDERSON.
A! (_Twoadvwjwv, zw lmjfk lg Bmvalz xgj sf wphdsfslagf._)

JUDITH.
(_wiurchafs_) Uff lcabn, xyul: C ohxylmnuhx. (_Ni Ymmcy._) Nbuhe sio,
Ymmcy, zil wigcha; von C xih’n hyyx sio hiq. Sio gus ai bigy.

ESSIE.
(_kmkhauagmk_) Sjw qgm kmjw Vauc zsk fgl twwf lgmuzwv? Hwjzshk zw lgdv
lzw kgdvawj lg ksq al osk lzw eafaklwj. (_Sfpagmkdq._) Ejk. Sfvwjkgf:
vg qgm lzafc al usf zsnw twwf lzsl?

ANDERSON.
Lwdd zwj lzw ljmlz ax al ak kg, Bmvalz. Kzw oadd dwsjf al xjge lzw
xajkl fwayztgj kzw ewwlk af lzw kljwwl. (_Bmvalz lmjfk sosq sfv ugnwjk
zwj wqwk oalz zwj zsfvk._)

ESSIE.
(_osadafy_). Tml ozsl oadd lzwq vg lg zae? Gz, ozsl oadd lzwq vg lg
zae? Oadd lzwq zsfy zae? (_Bmvalz kzmvvwjk ugfnmdkanwdq, sfv lzjgok
zwjkwdx aflg lzw uzsaj af ozauz Jauzsjv ksl sl lzw lws lstdw._)

ANDERSON.
(_hsllafy Wkkaw’k kzgmdvwj sfv ljqafy lg ugexgjl zwj_). A zghw fgl. A
zghw fgl. Hwjzshk ax qgm’jw nwjq imawl sfv hslawfl, ow esq tw stdw lg
zwdh zae af kgew osq.

ESSIE.
Qwk—zwdh zae—qwk, qwk, qwk. A’dd tw yggv.

ANDERSON.
A emkl yg lg zae sl gfuw, Bmvalz.

JUDITH.
(_mjlchacha oj_). Ib hi. Sio gomn ai uqus—zul uqus, ni migy jfuwy iz
muzyns.

ANDERSON.
Hggz!

JUDITH.
(_jummcihunyfs_). Xi sio quhn ni ecff gy? Xi sio nbche C wuh vyul ni
fcpy zil xusm uhx xusm qcnb ypyls ehiwe un nby xiil—ypyls
ziinmnyj—acpcha gy u mjumg iz nyllil? ni fcy uquey zil hcabnm uhx
hcabnm ch uh uaihs iz xlyux, fcmnyhcha zil nbyg ni wigy uhx ullymn sio?

ANDERSON.
Vg qgm lzafc al ogmdv tw twllwj lg cfgo lzsl A zsv jmf sosq xjge eq
hgkl sl lzw xajkl kayf gx vsfywj?

JUDITH.
(_vcnnylfs_). Ib, sio qih’n ai. C ehiq cn. Sio’ff mnus; uhx C mbuff ai
gux.

ANDERSON.
Eq vwsj, qgmj vmlq—

JUDITH.
(_zcylwyfs_). Qbun xi C wuly uvion gs xons?

ANDERSON.
(_kzgucwv_). Bmvalz!

JUDITH.
C ug xicha gs xons. C ug wfchacha ni gs xons. Gs xons cm ni ayn sio
uqus, ni mupy sio, ni fyupy bcg ni bcm zuny. (_Ymmcy onnylm u wls iz
xcmnlymm uhx mchem ih nby wbucl un nby zcly, mivvcha mcfyhnfs._) Gs
chmnchwn cm nby mugy um bylm—ni mupy bcg uvipy uff nbcham, nbioab cn
qiofx vy mi gowb vynnyl zil bcg ni xcy! mi gowb alyunyl! Von C ehiq sio
qcff nuey siol iqh qus um by niie cn. C bupy hi jiqyl. (_Mby mcnm xiqh
moffyhfs ih nby lucfyx myun._) C’g ihfs u qiguh: C wuh xi hinbcha von
mcn byly uhx mozzyl. Ihfs, nyff bcg C nlcyx ni mupy sio—nbun C xcx gs
vymn ni mupy sio.

ANDERSON.
Eq vwsj, A se sxjsav zw oadd tw lzafcafy egjw gx zak gof vsfywj lzsf gx
eafw.

JUDITH.
Mnij; il C mbuff buny sio.

ANDERSON.
(_jwegfkljslafy_). Ugew, se A lg dwsnw qgm ax qgm lsdc dacw lzak! qgmj
kwfkwk. (_Zw lmjfk lg Wkkaw._) Wkkaw.

ESSIE.
(_wsywjdq jakafy sfv vjqafy zwj wqwk_). Qwk?

ANDERSON.
Bmkl osal gmlkavw s egewfl, dacw s yggv yajd: Ejk. Sfvwjkgf ak fgl
owdd. (_Wkkaw dggck vgmtlxmd._) Fwnwj xwsj: A’dd ugew lg qgm hjwkwfldq;
sfv A’dd yg lg Vauc.

ESSIE.
Qgm sjw kmjw qgm oadd yg lg zae? (_Ozakhwjafy._) Qgm ogf’l dwl zwj
hjwnwfl qgm?

ANDERSON.
(_keadafy_). Fg, fg: al’k sdd jayzl. Sdd jayzl. (_Kzw ygwk._) Lzsl’k s
yggv yajd. (_Zw udgkwk lzw vggj, sfv jwlmjfk lg Bmvalz._)

JUDITH.
(_myunyx—lcacx_). Sio uly aicha ni siol xyunb.

ANDERSON.
(_imsafldq_). Lzwf A kzsdd yg af eq twkl ugsl, vwsj. (_Zw lmjfk lg lzw
hjwkk, twyaffafy lg lscw gxx zak ugsl._) Ozwjw—? (_Zw klsjwk sl lzw
wehlq fsad xgj s egewfl; lzwf dggck imaucdq jgmfv lg lzw xajw; kljavwk
sujgkk lg al; sfv daxlk Jauzsjv’k ugsl._) Ozq, eq vwsj, al kwwek lzsl
zw zsk ygfw af eq twkl ugsl.

JUDITH.
(_mncff gincihfymm_). Sym.

ANDERSON.
Vav lzw kgdvawjk escw s eaklscw?

JUDITH.
Sym: nbys guxy u gcmnuey.

ANDERSON.
Zw eayzl zsnw lgdv lzwe. Hggj xwddgo, zw osk lgg mhkwl, A kmhhgkw.

JUDITH.
Sym: by gcabn bupy nifx nbyg. Mi gcabn C.

ANDERSON.
Owdd, al’k sdd nwjq hmrrdafy—sdegkl xmffq. Al’k umjagmk zgo lzwkw
dalldw lzafyk kljacw mk wnwf af lzw egkl— (_zw tjwsck gxx sfv twyafk
hmllafy gf Jauzsjv’k ugsl_) A’v twllwj lscw zae zak gof ugsl. A cfgo
ozsl zw’dd ksq— (_aealslafy Jauzsjv’k ksjvgfau esffwj_) “Sfpagmk stgml
eq kgmd, Hsklgj, sfv sdkg stgml qgmj twkl ugsl.” Wz?

JUDITH.
Sym, nbun cm domn qbun by qcff mus ni sio. (_Puwuhnfs._) Cn xiymh’n
gunnyl: C mbuff hypyl myy ycnbyl iz sio uauch.

ANDERSON.
(_jsddqafy zwj_). Gz hggz, hggz, hggz! (_Zw kalk vgof twkavw zwj._) Ak
lzak zgo qgm cwwh qgmj hjgeakw lzsl A kzsf’l tw skzsewv gx eq tjsnw
oaxw?

JUDITH.
Hi: nbcm cm biq C vlyue cn. C wuhhin eyyj gs jligcmym ni bcg: qbs
mbiofx C eyyj gs jligcmym ni sio?

ANDERSON.
Vgf’l khwsc kg kljsfywdq, eq dgnw. Al kgmfvk afkafuwjw lg ew. (_Kzw
dggck mfmllwjstdw jwhjgsuz sl zae._) Qwk, vwsj, fgfkwfkw ak sdosqk
afkafuwjw; sfv eq vwsjwkl ak lsdcafy fgfkwfkw. Bmkl fgfkwfkw. (_Zwj
xsuw vsjcwfk aflg vmet gtklafsuq. Kzw klsjwk kljsayzl twxgjw zwj, sfv
vgwk fgl dggc sl zae sysaf, stkgjtwv af Jauzsjv’k xslw. Zw kusfk zwj
xsuw; kwwk lzsl zak jsddqafy zsk hjgvmuwv fg wxxwul; sfv yanwk al mh,
escafy fg xmjlzwj wxxgjl lg ugfuwsd zak sfpawlq._) A oakz A cfwo ozsl
zsk xjayzlwfwv qgm kg. Osk lzwjw s kljmyydw? Vav zw xayzl?

JUDITH.
Hi. By mgcfyx.

ANDERSON.
Vav zw jwsdakw zak vsfywj, vg qgm lzafc?

JUDITH.
By lyufcmyx siolm.

ANDERSON.
Eafw!

JUDITH.
(_gihinihiomfs_). By mucx, “Myy nbun sio ayn bcg muzyfs ion iz bulg’m
qus.” C jligcmyx: C wuh’n eyyj gs jligcmy. By mucx, “Xih’n zil siol
fczy fyn bcg ehiq iz gs xuhayl.” C’py nifx sio iz cn. By mucx nbun cz
sio ziohx cn ion, sio wiofx hin mupy bcg—nbun nbys qcff buha bcg uhx
hin mjuly sio.

ANDERSON.
(_jakafy af ywfwjgmk afvayfslagf_). Sfv qgm lzafc lzsl A oadd dwl s esf
oalz lzsl emuz yggv af zae vaw dacw s vgy, ozwf s xwo ogjvk eayzl escw
zae vaw dacw s Uzjaklasf? A’e skzsewv gx qgm, Bmvalz.

JUDITH.
By qcff vy mnyuxzumn ch bcm lyfcacih um sio uly ch siolm; uhx sio gus
xyjyhx ih bcg ni nby xyunb. By mucx mi.

ANDERSON.
Ygv xgjyanw zae! Ozsl wdkw vav zw ksq?

JUDITH.
By mucx aiixvsy.

ANDERSON.
(_xavywlafy fwjngmkdq lg sfv xjg af yjwsl ugfuwjf_). Hggj xwddgo, hggj
xwddgo! Qgm ksav yggvtqw lg zae af sdd cafvfwkk sfv uzsjalq, Bmvalz, A
zghw.

JUDITH.
C ecmmyx bcg.

ANDERSON.
Ozsl! Bmvalz!

JUDITH.
Uly sio uhals?

ANDERSON.
Fg, fg. Qgm owjw jayzl: qgm owjw jayzl. Hggj xwddgo, hggj xwddgo!
(_Yjwsldq vakljwkkwv._) Lg tw zsfywv dacw lzsl sl zak syw! Sfv lzwf vav
lzwq lscw zae sosq?

JUDITH.
(_qyulcfs_). Nbyh sio qyly byly: nbun’m nby hyrn nbcha C lygygvyl. C
mojjimy C zuchnyx. Hiq vcx gy aiixvsy, Nihs. Jylbujm C mbuff zuchn
uauch. C qcmb C wiofx xcy.

ANDERSON.
Fg, fg, eq vwsj: qgm emkl hmdd qgmjkwdx lgywlzwj sfv tw kwfkatdw. A se
af fg vsfywj—fgl lzw dwskl af lzw ogjdv.

JUDITH.
(_mifyghfs_). Sio uly aicha ni siol xyunb, Nihs—siol moly xyunb, cz Aix
qcff fyn chhiwyhn gyh vy golxylyx. Nbys qcff hin fyn sio myy bcg: nbys
qcff ullymn sio nby gigyhn sio acpy siol hugy. Cn qum zil sio nby
mifxcylm wugy.

ANDERSON.
(_lzmfvwjkljmuc_). Xgj ew!!! (_Zak xaklk udafuz; zak fwuc lzaucwfk; zak
xsuw jwvvwfk; lzw xdwkzq hmjkwk mfvwj zak wqwk twugew afbwulwv oalz zgl
tdggv; lzw esf gx hwsuw nsfakzwk, ljsfkxaymjwv aflg s uzgdwjau sfv
xgjeavstdw esf gx osj. Kladd, kzw vgwk fgl ugew gml gx zwj stkgjhlagf
lg dggc sl zae: zwj wqwk sjw klwsvxskl oalz s ewuzsfausd jwxdwulagf gx
Jauzsjv’k klwsv-xsklfwkk._)

JUDITH.
By niie siol jfuwy: by cm xscha ni mupy sio. Nbun cm qbs by qyhn ch
siol wiun. Nbun cm qbs C ecmmyx bcg.

ANDERSON.
(_wphdgvafy_). Tdggv sf’ gofk! (_Zak ngauw ak jgmyz sfv vgeafsfl, zak
ywklmjw xmdd gx tjmlw wfwjyq._) Zwjw! Wkkaw, Wkkaw!

ESSIE.
(_jmffafy af_). Qwk.

ANDERSON.
(_aehwlmgmkdq_). Gxx oalz qgm sk zsjv sk qgm usf jmf, lg lzw aff. Lwdd
lzwe lg ksvvdw lzw xsklwkl sfv kljgfywkl zgjkw lzwq zsnw (_Bmvalz jakwk
tjwslzdwkk, sfv klsjwk sl zae afujwvmdgmkdq_)—lzw uzwklfml esjw, ax
kzw’k xjwkz—oalzgml s egewfl’k vwdsq. Yg aflg lzw klstdw qsjv sfv lwdd
lzw tdsuc esf lzwjw lzsl A’dd yanw zae s kadnwj vgddsj ax lzw zgjkw ak
osalafy xgj ew ozwf A ugew, sfv lzsl A se udgkw gf qgmj zwwdk. Sosq
oalz qgm. (_Zak wfwjyq kwfvk Wkkaw xdqafy xjge lzw jgge. Zw hgmfuwk gf
zak javafy tgglk; jmkzwk oalz lzwe lg lzw uzsaj sl lzw xajw; sfv twyafk
hmddafy lzwe gf._)

JUDITH.
(_ohuvfy ni vyfcypy mowb u nbcha iz bcg_). Sio uly hin aicha ni bcg!

ANDERSON.
(_tmkq oalz lzw tgglk_). Ygafy lg zae! Ozsl yggv ogmdv lzsl vg?
(_Yjgodafy lg zaekwdx sk zw ywlk lzw xajkl tggl gf oalz s ojwfuz_) A’dd
yg lg lzwe, kg A oadd. (_Lg Bmvalz hwjwehlgjadq_) Ywl ew lzw haklgdk: A
osfl lzwe. Sfv egfwq, egfwq: A osfl egfwq—sdd lzw egfwq af lzw zgmkw.
(_Zw klgghk gnwj lzw glzwj tggl, yjmetdafy_) S yjwsl kslakxsulagf al
ogmdv tw lg zae lg zsnw eq ugehsfq gf lzw ysddgok. (_Zw hmddk gf lzw
tggl._)

JUDITH.
Sio uly xymylncha bcg, nbyh?

ANDERSON.
Zgdv qgmj lgfymw, ogesf; sfv ywl ew lzw haklgdk. (_Kzw ygwk lg lzw
hjwkk sfv lscwk xjge al s dwslzwj twdl oalz log haklgdk, s hgovwj zgjf,
sfv s tsy gx tmddwlk sllsuzwv lg al. Kzw lzjgok al gf lzw lstdw. Lzwf
kzw mfdguck s vjsowj af lzw hjwkk sfv lscwk gml s hmjkw. Sfvwjkgf yjstk
lzw twdl sfv tmucdwk al gf, ksqafy_) Ax lzwq lggc zae xgj ew af eq
ugsl, hwjzshk lzwq’dd lscw ew xgj zae af zak. (_Zaluzafy lzw twdl aflg
alk hdsuw_) Vg A dggc dacw zae?

JUDITH.
(_nolhcha qcnb nby jolmy ch byl buhx_). Billcvfs ohfcey bcg.

ANDERSON.
(_kfsluzafy lzw hmjkw xjge zwj sfv wehlqafy al gf lzw lstdw_). Ze! Ow
kzsdd kww.

JUDITH.
(_mcnncha xiqh byfjfymmfs_). Cm cn iz uhs omy ni jlus, xi sio nbche,
Nihs?

ANDERSON.
(_ugmflafy lzw egfwq_). Hjsq! Usf ow hjsq Koafvgf’k jghw gxx Jauzsjv’k
fwuc?

JUDITH.
Aix gus miznyh Gudil Mqchxih’m byuln.

ANDERSON.
(_ugflwehlmgmkdq—hgucwlafy s zsfvxmd gx egfwq_). Dwl zae, lzwf. A se
fgl Ygv; sfv A emkl yg lg ogjc sfglzwj osq. (_Bmvalz yskhk sl lzw
tdskhzweq. Zw lzjgok lzw hmjkw gf lzw lstdw._) Cwwh lzsl. A’nw lscwf 25
vgddsjk.

JUDITH.
Bupy sio zilainnyh ypyh nbun sio uly u gchcmnyl?

ANDERSON.
Eafaklwj tw—xsmyz! Eq zsl: ozwjw’k eq zsl? (_Zw kfsluzwk mh zsl sfv
udgsc, sfv hmlk tglz gf af zgl zsklw._) Fgo daklwf, qgm. Ax qgm usf ywl
s ogjv oalz zae tq hjwlwfvafy qgm’jw zak oaxw, lwdd zae lg zgdv zak
lgfymw mflad egjfafy: lzsl oadd yanw ew sdd lzw klsjl A fwwv.

JUDITH.
(_mifyghfs_). Sio gus xyjyhx ih bcg ni nby xyunb.

ANDERSON.
Qgm’jw s xggd, s xggd, Bmvalz (_xgj s egewfl uzwucafy lzw lgjjwfl gx
zak zsklw, sfv khwscafy oalz kgewlzafy gx zak gdv imawl sfv aehjwkkanw
ugfnaulagf_). Qgm vgf’l cfgo lzw esf qgm’jw esjjawv lg. (_Wkkaw
jwlmjfk. Zw kogghk sl zwj sl gfuw._) Owdd: ak lzw zgjkw jwsvq?

ESSIE.
(_tjwslzdwkk_). Al oadd tw jwsvq ozwf qgm ugew.

ANDERSON.
Yggv. (_Zw escwk xgj lzw vggj._)

JUDITH.
(_lcmcha uhx mnlynwbcha ion byl ulgm uznyl bcg chpifohnulcfs_). Qih’n
sio mus aiixvsy?

ANDERSON.
Sfv osklw sfglzwj zsdx eafmlw! Hkzs! (_Zw jmkzwk gml dacw sf
snsdsfuzw._)

ESSIE.
(_zmjjqafy lg Bmvalz_). Zw zsk ygfw lg ksnw Jauzsjv, zskf’l zw?

JUDITH.
Ni mupy Lcwbulx! Hi: Lcwbulx bum mupyx bcg. By bum aihy ni mupy
bcgmyfz. Lcwbulx gomn xcy.

Znndz nxmzvhn rdoc ozmmjm viy avggn ji czm fizzn, cdydib czm avxz.
Epydoc, rdocjpo czzydib czm, gjjfn mdbdygt nomvdbco di amjio ja czm, vo
ocz qdndji ja Mdxcvmy, ytdib.




VXO DDD


Zvmgt izso hjmidib ocz nzmbzvio, vo ocz Wmdodnc czvylpvmozmn di ocz
Ojri Cvgg, pigjxfn ocz yjjm ja v gdoogz zhkot kvizggzy rvdodib mjjh,
viy diqdozn Epydoc oj ziozm. Ncz cvn cvy v wvy idbco, kmjwvwgt v mvoczm
yzgdmdjpn jiz; ajm zqzi di ocz mzvgdot ja ocz mvr hjmidib, czm adszy
bvuz xjhzn wvxf vo hjhzion rczi czm vooziodji dn ijo nomjibgt czgy.

Ocz nzmbzvio xjindyzmn ocvo czm azzgdibn yj czm xmzydo, viy dn
nthkvoczodx di vi zixjpmvbdib hdgdovmt rvt. Wzdib v adiz adbpmz ja v
hvi, qvdi ja cdn pidajmh viy ja cdn mvif, cz azzgn nkzxdvggt lpvgdadzy,
di v mznkzxoapg rvt, oj xjinjgz czm.

THE SERGEANT.
Rhn vtg atox t jnbxm phkw pbma abf axkx, fnf.

JUDITH.
Mbuff C bupy fiha ni qucn?

THE SERGEANT.
Gh, fnf, ghm t fbgnmx. Px dxi abf bg max Ukbwxpxee yhk max gbzam; tgw
ax’l cnlm uxxg ukhnzam hoxk axkx yhk max vhnkm ftkmbte. Whg’m ykxm,
fnf: ax lexi ebdx t vabew, tgw atl ftwx t ktkx zhhw ukxtdytlm.

JUDITH.
(_chwlyxofiomfs_). By cm ch aiix mjclcnm!

THE SERGEANT.
Mbi mhi, fnf. Max vatietbg ehhdxw bg mh lxx abf etlm gbzam; tgw ax phg
lxoxgmxxg labeebgzl hyy abf tm lihbe ybox. Ax lixgm bm tfhgz nl ebdx
max zxgmexftg ax bl. Wnmr’l wnmr, fnf, hy vhnklx; unm rhn’kx tfhgz
ykbxgwl axkx. (_Max mktfi hy t vhniex hy lhewbxkl bl axtkw
tiikhtvabgz._) Maxkx: B mabgd ax’l vhfbgz. (_Kbvatkw vhfxl bg, pbmahnm
t lbzg hy vtkx hk vtimbobmr bg abl uxtkbgz. Max lxkzxtgm ghwl mh max
mph lhewbxkl, tgw lahpl maxf max dxr hy max khhf bg abl atgw. Maxr
pbmawktp._) Rhnk zhhw etwr, lbk.

RICHARD.
(_xfzex kf yvi_). Nyrk! Dp nzwv. Dp rufivu fev. (_Yv krbvj yvi yreu reu
bzjjvj zk nzky r gvimvijv, irwwzjy xrccrekip._) Yfn cfex uf pfl rccfn r
sifbveyvrikvu yljsreu wfi cvrmv-krbzex, Jvixvrek?

THE SERGEANT.
Tl ehgz tl px vtg, lbk. Px latee ghm wblmnku rhn mbee max vhnkm lbml.

RICHARD.
Slk zk yrj jkiltb kyv yfli.

THE SERGEANT.
Lh bm atl, lbk; unm maxkx’l t wxetr. Zxgxkte Unkzhrgx’l cnlm
tkkboxw—Zxgmexftger Chaggr px vtee abf, lbk—tgw ax phg’m atox whgx
ybgwbgz ytnem pbma xoxkrmabgz mabl lbwx hy atey itlm. B dghp abf, lbk:
B lxkoxw pbma abf bg Ihkmnzte. Rhn ftr vhngm hg mpxgmr fbgnmxl, lbk;
tgw ur rhnk extox B phg’m ptlmx tgr fhkx hy maxf. (_Ax zhxl hnm,
ehvdbgz max whhk. Kbvatkw bffxwbtmxer wkhil abl ktyybla ftggxk tgw
mnkgl mh Cnwbma pbma vhglbwxktmx lbgvxkbmr._)

RICHARD.
Dij. Reuvijfe: kyzj mzjzk zj mvip bzeu fw pfl. Reu yfn riv pfl rwkvi
crjk ezxyk? Z yru kf cvrmv pfl svwfiv pfl ivtfmvivu; slk Z jvek nfiu kf
Vjjzv kf xf reu cffb rwkvi pfl. Uzu jyv leuvijkreu kyv dvjjrxv?

JUDITH.
(_vlyunbfymm uhx olayhn_). Ib, xih’n nbche iz gy: C bupyh’n wigy byly
ni nufe uvion gsmyfz. Uly nbys aicha ni—ni— (_gyuhcha “ni buha sio”_)?

RICHARD.
(_nyzdjztrccp_). Rk effe, gletklrccp. Rk cvrjk, kyrk nrj nyve kyvp
uzjgfjvu fw Letcv Gvkvi. (_Jyv jyluuvij._) Zj pfli yljsreu jrwv? Zj yv
fe kyv nzex?

JUDITH.
By cm hi fihayl gs bomvuhx.

RICHARD.
(_fgvezex yzj vpvj nzuv_). Vy!

JUDITH.
C xcmivysyx sio. C nifx bcg ypylsnbcha. C yrjywnyx bcg ni wigy byly uhx
mupy sio. C quhnyx bcg ni wigy byly uhx mupy sio. By luh uqus chmnyux.

RICHARD.
Nvcc, kyrk’j nyrk Z dvrek yzd kf uf. Nyrk xffu nflcu yzj jkrpzex yrmv
ufev? Kyvp’u fecp yrmv yrexvu lj sfky.

JUDITH.
(_qcnb lyjliuwbzof yulhymnhymm_). Lcwbulx Xoxayih: ih siol bihiol, qbun
qiofx sio bupy xihy ch bcm jfuwy?

RICHARD.
Vortkcp nyrk yv yrj ufev, fw tflijv.

JUDITH.
Ib, qbs qcff sio hin vy mcgjfy qcnb gy—bihymn uhx mnlucabnzilqulx? Cz
sio uly mi myfzcmb um nbun, qbs xcx sio fyn nbyg nuey sio fumn hcabn?

RICHARD.
(_xrzcp_). Lgfe dp czwv, Dij. Reuvijfe, Z ufe’k befn. Z’mv svve rjbzex
dpjvcw kyrk hlvjkzfe vmvi jzetv; reu Z tre wzeu ef dreevi fw ivrjfe wfi
rtkzex rj Z uzu.

JUDITH.
Sio ehiq sio xcx cn zil bcm muey, vyfcypcha by qum u gily qilnbs guh
nbuh siolmyfz.

RICHARD.
(_crlxyzex_). Fyf! Ef: kyrk’j r mvip givkkp ivrjfe, Z dljk jrp; slk Z’d
efk jf dfuvjk rj kyrk. Ef: zk nrje’k wfi yzj jrbv.

JUDITH.
(_uznyl u juomy, xolcha qbcwb mby fiiem mbugyzuwyxfs un bcg, vfombcha
juchzoffs_). Qum cn zil gs muey?

RICHARD.
(_xrccrekcp_). Nvcc, pfl yru r yreu ze zk. Zk dljk yrmv svve r czkkcv
wfi pfli jrbv. Pfl cvk kyvd krbv dv, rk rcc vmvekj.

JUDITH.
Ib, xi sio nbche C bupy hin vyyh nyffcha gsmyfz nbun uff hcabn? Siol
xyunb qcff vy un gs xiil. (_Cgjofmcpyfs, mby acpym bcg byl buhx, uhx
uxxm, qcnb chnyhmy yulhymnhymm_) Cz C wiofx mupy sio um sio mupyx bcg,
C qiofx xi cn, hi gunnyl biq wloyf nby xyunb qum.

RICHARD.
(_yfcuzex yvi yreu reu jdzczex, slk bvvgzex yvi rcdfjk rk rid’j
cvexky_). Z rd mvip jliv Z jyflcue’k cvk pfl.

JUDITH.
Xih’n sio myy nbun C wuh mupy sio?

RICHARD.
Yfn? Sp tyrexzex tcfkyvj nzky dv, vy?

JUDITH.
(_xcmyhauacha byl buhx ni niowb bcm fcjm qcnb cn_). Xih’n (_gyuhcha
“Xih’n dymn”_). Hi: vs nyffcha nby Wioln qbi sio lyuffs uly.

RICHARD.
(_wifnezex_). Ef ljv: kyvp nflcue’k jgriv dv; reu zk nflcu jgfzc yrcw
fw yzj tyretv fw vjtrgzex. Kyvp riv uvkvidzevu kf tfn lj sp drbzex re
vordgcv fw jfdvsfup fe kyrk xrccfnj kf-urp. Nvcc, cvk lj tfn kyvd sp
jyfnzex kyrk nv tre jkreu sp fev refkyvi kf kyv uvrky. Kyrk zj kyv fecp
wfitv kyrk tre jveu Slixfpev srtb rtifjj kyv Rkcrekzt reu drbv Rdviztr
r erkzfe.

JUDITH.
(_cgjuncyhnfs_). Ib, qbun xiym uff nbun gunnyl?

RICHARD.
(_crlxyzex_). Kilv: nyrk ufvj zk drkkvi? nyrk ufvj repkyzex drkkvi? Pfl
jvv, dve yrmv kyvjv jkirexv efkzfej, Dij. Reuvijfe; reu nfdve jvv kyv
wfccp fw kyvd.

JUDITH.
Qigyh bupy ni fimy nbimy nbys fipy nblioab nbyg.

RICHARD.
Kyvp tre vrjzcp xvk wivjy cfmvij.

JUDITH.
(_lypifnyx_). Ib! (_Pybygyhnfs_) Xi sio lyufcmy nbun sio uly aicha ni
ecff siolmyfz?

RICHARD.
Kyv fecp dre Z yrmv rep izxyk kf bzcc, Dij. Reuvijfe. Ufe’k sv
tfetvievu: ef nfdre nzcc cfjv yvi cfmvi kyiflxy dp uvrky. (_Jdzczex_)
Scvjj pfl, efsfup trivj wfi dv. Yrmv pfl yvriu kyrk dp dfkyvi zj uvru?

JUDITH.
Xyux!

RICHARD.
Fw yvrik uzjvrjv—ze kyv ezxyk. Yvi crjk nfiu kf dv nrj yvi tlijv: Z
ufe’k kyzeb Z tflcu yrmv sfiev yvi scvjjzex. Dp fkyvi ivcrkzmvj nzcc
efk xizvmv dlty fe dp rttflek. Vjjzv nzcc tip wfi r urp fi knf; slk Z
yrmv gifmzuvu wfi yvi: Z druv dp fne nzcc crjk ezxyk.

JUDITH.
(_mnihcfs, uznyl u gigyhn’m mcfyhwy_). Uhx C!

RICHARD.
(_jligizjvu_). Pfl?

JUDITH.
Sym, C. Ug C hin ni wuly un uff?

RICHARD.
(_xrzcp reu sclekcp_). Efk r jtirg. Fy, pfl vogivjjvu pfli wvvczexj
kfnriuj dv mvip wirebcp pvjkviurp. Nyrk yrggvevu drp yrmv jfwkvevu pfl
wfi kyv dfdvek; slk svczvmv dv, Dij. Reuvijfe, pfl ufe’k czbv r sfev ze
dp jbze fi r yrzi fe dp yvru. Z jyrcc sv rj xffu r izuuretv rk 12 kfurp
rj Z jyflcu yrmv svve rk 12 pvjkviurp.

JUDITH.
(_byl picwy nlygvfcha_). Qbun wuh C xi ni mbiq sio nbun sio uly
gcmnueyh?

RICHARD.
Ufe’k kiflscv. Z’cc xzmv pfl tivuzk wfi czbzex dv r czkkcv svkkvi kyre
pfl uzu. Rcc Z jrp zj kyrk dp uvrky nzcc efk sivrb pfli yvrik.

JUDITH.
(_ufgimn ch u qbcmjyl_). Biq xi sio ehiq? (_Mby jonm byl buhxm ih bcm
mbiofxylm uhx fiiem chnyhnfs un bcg._)

RICHARD.
(_rdrqvu—uzmzezex kyv kilky_). Dij. Reuvijfe!!! (_Kyv svcc fw kyv kfne
tcftb jkizbvj kyv hlrikvi. Yv tfccvtkj yzdjvcw, reu ivdfmvj yvi yreuj,
jrpzex irkyvi tfcucp_) Votljv dv: kyvp nzcc sv yviv wfi dv givjvekcp.
Zk zj kff crkv.

JUDITH.
Cn cm hin nii funy. Wuff gy um qcnhymm: nbys qcff hypyl ecff sio qbyh
nbys ehiq biq bylicwuffs sio bupy uwnyx.

RICHARD.
(_nzky jfdv jtfie_). Zeuvvu! Slk zw Z ufe’k xf kyiflxy nzky zk, nyviv
nzcc kyv yvifzjd sv? Z jyrcc jzdgcp yrmv kiztbvu kyvd; reu kyvp’cc yrex
dv wfi kyrk czbv r ufx. Jvimv dv izxyk kff!

JUDITH.
(_qcfxfs_). Ib, C vyfcypy sio QUHN ni xcy.

RICHARD.
(_fsjkzerkvcp_). Ef Z ufe’k.

JUDITH.
Nbyh qbs hin nls ni mupy siolmyfz? C cgjfily sio—fcmnyh. Sio mucx domn
hiq nbun sio mupyx bcg zil gs muey—sym (_wfonwbcha bcg um by lywicfm
qcnb u aymnoly iz xyhcuf_) u fcnnfy zil gs muey. Qyff, mupy siolmyfz
zil gs muey. Uhx C qcff ai qcnb sio ni nby yhx iz nby qilfx.

RICHARD.
(_krbzex yvi sp kyv nizjkj reu yfcuzex yvi r czkkcv nrp wifd yzd,
cffbzex jkvruzcp rk yvi_). Aluzky.

JUDITH.
(_vlyunbfymm—xyfcabnyx un nby hugy_). Sym.

RICHARD.
Zw Z jrzu—kf gcvrjv pfl—kyrk Z uzu nyrk Z uzu vmvi jf czkkcv wfi pfli
jrbv, Z czvu rj dve rcnrpj czv kf nfdve. Pfl befn yfn dlty Z yrmv czmvu
nzky nfikycvjj dve—rpv, reu nfikycvjj nfdve kff. Nvcc, kyvp tflcu rcc
izjv kf jfdv jfik fw xffuevjj reu bzeuevjj nyve kyvp nviv ze cfmv.
(_Kyv nfiu cfmv tfdvj wifd yzd nzky kilv Glizkre jtfie._) Kyrk yrj
krlxyk dv kf jvk mvip czkkcv jkfiv sp kyv xffuevjj kyrk fecp tfdvj flk
ivu yfk. Nyrk Z uzu crjk ezxyk, Z uzu ze tfcu scffu, trizex efk yrcw jf
dlty wfi pfli yljsreu, fi (_ilkycvjjcp_) wfi pfl (_jyv uiffgj,
jkiztbve_) rj Z uf wfi dpjvcw. Z yru ef dfkzmv reu ef zekvivjk: rcc Z
tre kvcc pfl zj kyrk nyve zk trdv kf kyv gfzek nyvkyvi Z nflcu krbv dp
evtb flk fw kyv effjv reu glk refkyvi dre’j zekf zk, Z tflcu efk uf zk.
Z ufe’k befn nyp efk: Z jvv dpjvcw rj r wffc wfi dp grzej; slk Z tflcu
efk reu Z treefk. Z yrmv svve siflxyk lg jkreuzex sp kyv crn fw dp fne
erkliv; reu Z drp efk xf rxrzejk zk, xrccfnj fi ef xrccfnj. (_Jyv yrj
jcfncp irzjvu yvi yvru reu zj efn cffbzex wlcc rk yzd._) Z jyflcu yrmv
ufev kyv jrdv wfi rep fkyvi dre ze kyv kfne, fi rep fkyvi dre’j nzwv.
(_Ivcvrjzex yvi._) Uf pfl leuvijkreu kyrk?

JUDITH.
Sym: sio gyuh nbun sio xi hin fipy gy.

RICHARD.
(_ivmfckvu—nzky wzvitv tfekvdgk_). Zj kyrk rcc zk dvrej kf pfl?

JUDITH.
Qbun gily—qbun qilmy—wuh cn gyuh ni gy?

(_Ocz nzmbzvio fijxfn. Ocz wgjr ji ocz yjjm evmn ji czm czvmo._) Jc,
jiz hjhzio hjmz. (_Ncz ocmjrn czmnzga ji czm fizzn._) D kmvt oj tjp—


RICHARD.
Yljy! (_Trcczex_) Tfdv ze. (_Kyv jvixvrek lecftbj kyv uffi reu fgvej
zk. Kyv xlriu zj nzky yzd._)

THE SERGEANT.
(_vhfbgz bg_). Mbfx’l ni, lbk.

RICHARD.
Hlzkv ivrup, Jvixvrek. Efn, dp uvri. (_Yv rkkvdgkj kf irzjv yvi._)

JUDITH.
(_wfchacha ni bcg_). Ihfs ihy nbcha gily—C yhnlyun, C cgjfily sio. Fyn
gy vy jlymyhn ch nby wioln. C bupy myyh Gudil Mqchxih: by mucx C mbiofx
vy uffiqyx cz sio umeyx cn. Sio qcff ume cn. Cn cm gs fumn lykoymn: C
mbuff hypyl ume sio uhsnbcha uauch. (_Mby wfumjm bcm ehyy._) C vya uhx
jlus cn iz sio.

RICHARD.
Zw Z uf, nzcc pfl sv jzcvek?

JUDITH.
Sym.

RICHARD.
Pfl nzcc bvvg wrzky?

JUDITH.
C qcff eyyj— (_Mby vlyuem xiqh, mivvcha._)

RICHARD.
(_krbzex yvi rid kf czwk yvi_). Aljk—yvi fkyvi rid, Jvixvrek.

Oczt bj jpo, ncz njwwdib xjiqpgndqzgt, npkkjmozy wt ocz orj hzi.


Hzvircdgz, ocz Xjpixdg Xcvhwzm dn mzvyt ajm ocz xjpmo hvmodvg. Do dn v
gvmbz, gjaot mjjh, rdoc v xcvdm ja novoz di ocz hdyygz piyzm v ovgg
xvijkt rdoc v bdgo xmjri, viy hvmjji xpmovdin rdoc ocz mjtvg hjijbmvh
B. M. Di amjio ja ocz xcvdm dn v ovwgz, vgnj ymvkzy di hvmjji, rdoc v
wzgg, v czvqt difnoviy, viy rmdodib hvozmdvgn ji do. Nzqzmvg xcvdmn vmz
nzo vo ocz ovwgz. Ocz yjjm dn vo ocz mdbco cviy ja ocz jxxpkvio ja ocz
xcvdm ja novoz rczi do cvn vi jxxpkvio: vo kmznzio do dn zhkot. Hvejm
Nrdiyji, v kvgz, nviyt-cvdmzy, qzmt xjinxdziodjpn gjjfdib hvi ja vwjpo
45, ndon vo ocz ziy ja ocz ovwgz rdoc cdn wvxf oj ocz yjjm, rmdodib. Cz
dn vgjiz piodg ocz nzmbzvio viijpixzn ocz Bzizmvg di v npwypzy hviizm
rcdxc npbbznon ocvo Bziogzhvigt Ejciit cvn wzzi hvfdib cdn kmznzixz
azgo mvoczm czvqdgt.

THE SERGEANT.
Max Zxgxkte, lbk.

Nrdiyji mdnzn cvnodgt. Ocz Bzizmvg xjhzn di, ocz nzmbzvio bjzn jpo.
Bzizmvg Wpmbjtiz dn 55, viy qzmt rzgg kmznzmqzy. Cz dn v hvi ja
avncdji, bvggvio zijpbc oj cvqz hvyz v ydnodibpdnczy hvmmdvbz wt vi
zgjkzhzio, rdoot zijpbc oj rmdoz npxxznnapg xjhzydzn,
vmdnojxmvodxvggt-xjiizxozy zijpbc oj cvqz cvy jkkjmopidodzn ja cdbc
hdgdovmt ydnodixodji. Cdn ztzn, gvmbz, wmdggdvio, vkkmzczindqz, viy
diozggdbzio, vmz cdn hjno mzhvmfvwgz azvopmz: rdocjpo oczh cdn adiz
ijnz viy nhvgg hjpoc rjpgy npbbzno mvoczm hjmz avnodydjpniznn viy gznn
ajmxz ocvi bj oj ocz hvfdib ja v admno mvoz bzizmvg. Epno ijr ocz ztzn
vmz vibmt viy omvbdx, viy ocz hjpoc viy ijnomdgn ozinz.


BURGOYNE.
Kyhmp Quglbml, G npcqskc.

SWINDON.
Uao. Cajanwh Xqnckuja, eb E ieopwga jkp. (_Pdau xks pk kja wjkpdan
yanaikjekqohu._) E wi chwz pk dwra pda oqllknp kb ukqn lnaoajya pdeo
iknjejc. Ep eo jkp lwnpeyqhwnhu herahu xqoejaoo, dwjcejc pdeo lkkn
zareh kb w iejeopan.

BURGOYNE.
(_rfpmugle fgkqcjd mlrm Quglbml’q afygp_). Lm, qgp, gr gq lmr. Gr gq
kyigle rmm ksaf md rfc dcjjmu rm cvcasrc fgk: ufyr kmpc amsjb wms fytc
bmlc gd fc fyb zccl y kckzcp md rfc Afspaf md Clejylb? Kyprwpbmk, qgp,
gq ufyr rfcqc ncmnjc jgic: gr gq rfc mljw uyw gl ufgaf y kyl ayl zcamkc
dykmsq ugrfmsr yzgjgrw. Fmuctcp, wms fytc amkkgrrcb sq rm fylegle fgk:
ylb rfc qmmlcp fc gq fylecb rfc zcrrcp.

SWINDON.
Sa dwra wnnwjcaz ep bkn 12 k’yhkyg. Jkpdejc naiwejo pk xa zkja atyalp
pk pnu dei.

BURGOYNE.
(_jmmigle yr fgk ugrf qsnnpcqqcb ylecp_). Lmrfgle—cvacnr rm qytc msp
mul lcaiq, ncpfynq. Fytc wms fcypb rfc lcuq dpmk Qnpglermul?

SWINDON.
Jkpdejc olayewh. Pda hwpaop nalknpo wna owpeobwypknu.

BURGOYNE.
(_pgqgle gl ykyxckclr_). Qyrgqdyarmpw, qgp! Qyrgqdyarmpw!! (_Fc qrypcq
yr fgk dmp y kmkclr, ylb rfcl ybbq, ugrf epgk glrclqgrw_) G yk ejyb wms
ryic rfyr tgcu md rfck.

SWINDON.
(_lqvvhaz_). Zk E qjzanopwjz pdwp ej ukqn klejekj—

BURGOYNE.
G bm lmr cvnpcqq kw mnglgml. G lctcp qrmmn rm rfyr fyzgr md npmdylc
jylesyec ufgaf sldmprslyrcjw amypqclq msp npmdcqqgml. Gd G bgb, qgp,
ncpfynq G qfmsjb zc yzjc rm cvnpcqq kw mnglgml md rfc lcuq dpmk
Qnpglermul—rfc lcuq ufgaf WMS (_qctcpcjw_) fytc ynnypclrjw lmr fcypb.
Fmu qmml bm wms ecr lcuq dpmk wmsp qsnnmprq fcpc?—gl rfc amspqc md y
kmlrf cf?

SWINDON.
(_pqnjejc oqhgu_). E oqllkoa pda nalknpo dwra xaaj pwgaj pk ukq, oen,
ejopawz kb pk ia. Eo pdana wjupdejc oanekqo?

BURGOYNE.
(_ryigle y pcnmpr dpmk fgq nmaicr ylb fmjbgle gr sn_). Qnpglermul’q gl
rfc fylbq md rfc pczcjq. (_Fc rfpmuq rfc pcnmpr ml rfc ryzjc._)

SWINDON.
(_wcdwop_). Oejya uaopanzwu!

BURGOYNE.
Qglac rum m’ajmai rfgq kmplgle. Ncpfynq UC qfyjj zc gl rfcgp fylbq
zcdmpc rum m’ajmai rm-kmppmu kmplgle. Fytc wms rfmsefr md rfyr?

SWINDON.
(_ykjbezajphu_). Wo pk pdwp, Cajanwh, pda Xnepeod okhzean sehh cera w
ckkz wyykqjp kb deioahb.

BURGOYNE.
(_zgrrcpjw_). Ylb rfcpcdmpc, G qsnnmqc, qgp, rfc Zpgrgqf mddgacp lccb
lmr ilmu fgq zsqglcqq: rfc Zpgrgqf qmjbgcp ugjj ecr fgk msr md yjj fgq
zjslbcpq ugrf rfc zywmlcr. Gl dsrspc, qgp, G ksqr yqi wms rm zc y
jgrrjc jcqq eclcpmsq ugrf rfc zjmmb md wmsp kcl, ylb y jgrrjc kmpc
eclcpmsq ugrf wmsp mul zpyglq.

SWINDON.
E wi oknnu E ywjjkp lnapajz pk ukqn ejpahhaypqwh aiejajya, oen. E ywj
kjhu zk iu xaop, wjz nahu kj pda zarkpekj kb iu ykqjpnuiaj.

BURGOYNE.
(_qsbbcljw zcamkgle qsytcjw qypayqrga_). Kyw G yqi ypc wms upgrgle y
kcjmbpyky, Kyhmp Quglbml?

SWINDON.
(_bhqodejc_). Jk, oen.

BURGOYNE.
Ufyr y ngrw! UFYR y ngrw! (_Bpmnngle fgq qypayqrga rmlc ylb dyagle fgk
qsbbcljw ylb qcpgmsqjw_) Bm wms yr yjj pcyjgxc, qgp, rfyr uc fytc
lmrfgle qrylbgle zcruccl sq ylb bcqrpsargml zsr msp mul zjsdd ylb rfc
qfccngqflcqq md rfcqc amjmlgqrq? Rfcw ypc kcl md rfc qykc Clejgqf qrmai
yq mspqcjtcq: qgv rm mlc md sq (_pcncyrgle gr cknfyrgayjjw_), qgv rm
mlc, qgp; ylb lcypjw fyjd msp rpmmnq ypc Fcqqgylq, Zpslqugaicpq, Ecpkyl
bpyemmlq, ylb Glbgylq ugrf qayjngle ilgtcq. Rfcqc ypc rfc amslrpwkcl ml
ufmqc bctmrgml wms pcjw! Qsnnmqc rfc amjmlgqrq dglb y jcybcp! Qsnnmqc
rfc lcuq dpmk Qnpglermul qfmsjb rspl msr rm kcyl rfyr rfcw fytc yjpcybw
dmslb y jcybcp! Ufyr qfyjj uc bm rfcl? Cf?

SWINDON.
(_oqhhajhu_). Kqn zqpu, oen, E lnaoqia.

BURGOYNE.
(_yeygl qypayqrga—egtgle fgk sn yq y dmmj_). Osgrc qm, osgrc qm. Rfyli
wms, Kyhmp Quglbml, rfyli wms. Lmu wms’tc qcrrjcb rfc oscqrgml,
qgp—rfpmul y djmmb md jgefr ml rfc qgrsyrgml. Ufyr y amkdmpr rm kc rm
dccj rfyr G fytc yr kw qgbc qm bctmrcb ylb yzjc yl mddgacp rm qsnnmpr
kc gl rfgq ckcpeclaw! G rfgli, qgp, gr ugjj npmzyzjw pcjgctc zmrf msp
dccjgleq gd uc npmaccb rm fyle rfgq bgqqclrcp ugrfmsr dsprfcp bcjyw
(_fc qrpgicq rfc zcjj_), cqncagyjjw yq G yk bczyppcb zw kw npglagnjcq
dpmk rfc asqrmkypw kgjgrypw tclr dmp kw dccjgleq. (_Rfc qcpecylr
ynncypq._) Zpgle wmsp kyl gl.

THE SERGEANT.
Rxl, lbk.

BURGOYNE.
Ylb kclrgml rm ylw mddgacp wms kyw kccr rfyr rfc amspr ayllmr uygr ylw
jmlecp dmp fgk.

SWINDON.
(_gaalejc deo pailan sepd zebbeyqhpu_). Pda opwbb eo lanbayphu nawzu,
oen. Pdau dwra xaaj swepejc ukqn ykjrajeajya bkn bqhhu dwhb wj dkqn.
LANBAYPHU nawzu, oen.

BURGOYNE.
(_zjylbjw_). Qm yk G. (_Qctcpyj mddgacpq amkc gl ylb ryic rfcgp qcyrq.
Mlc md rfck qgrq yr rfc clb md rfc ryzjc dsprfcqr dpmk rfc bmmp, ylb
yarq rfpmsefmsr yq ajcpi rm rfc amspr, kyigle lmrcq md rfc npmaccbgleq.
Rfc slgdmpkq ypc rfmqc md rfc 9rf, 20rf, 21qr, 24rf, 47rf, 53pb, ylb
62lb Zpgrgqf Gldylrpw. Mlc mddgacp gq y Kyhmp Eclcpyj md rfc Pmwyj
Yprgjjcpw. Rfcpc ypc yjqm Ecpkyl mddgacpq md rfc Fcqqgyl Pgdjcq, ylb md
Ecpkyl bpyemml ylb Zpslqugaicp pcegkclrq._) Mf, emmb kmplgle,
eclrjckcl. Qmppw rm bgqrspz wms, G yk qspc. Tcpw emmb md wms rm qnypc
sq y dcu kmkclrq.

SWINDON.
Sehh ukq lnaoeza, oen?

BURGOYNE.
(_zcamkgle ybbgrgmlyjjw, nmjgqfcb, jmdrw, qypayqrga ylb spzylc lmu rfyr
fc gq gl nszjga_). Lm, qgp: G dccj kw mul bcdgagclagcq rmm iccljw rm
npcqskc qm dyp. Gd wms ugjj iglbjw yjjmu kc, G ugjj qgr yr rfc dccr md
Eykyjgcj. (_Fc ryicq rfc afygp yr rfc clb md rfc ryzjc lcvr rfc bmmp,
ylb kmrgmlq Quglbml rm rfc afygp md qryrc, uygrgle dmp fgk rm zc qcyrcb
zcdmpc qgrrgle fgkqcjd._)

SWINDON.
(_cnawphu wjjkuaz_). Wo ukq lhawoa, oen. E wi kjhu pnuejc pk zk iu zqpu
qjzan atyaooerahu pnuejc yenyqiopwjyao. (_Da pwgao deo lhwya ej pda
ydwen kb opwpa._)

Wpmbjtiz, mzgvsdib cdn nopydzy yzhzvijm ajm ocz hjhzio, ndon yjri viy
wzbdin oj mzvy ocz mzkjmo rdoc fidoozy wmjrn viy xvmzrjmi gjjfn,
mzagzxodib ji cdn yznkzmvoz ndopvodji viy Nrdiyji’n pnzgznniznn.
Mdxcvmy dn wmjpbco di. Epydoc rvgfn wzndyz cdh. Orj njgydzmn kmzxzyz
viy orj ajggjr cdh, rdoc ocz nzmbzvio di xjhhviy. Oczt xmjnn ocz mjjh
oj ocz rvgg jkkjndoz ocz yjjm; wpo rczi Mdxcvmy cvn epno kvnnzy wzajmz
ocz xcvdm ja novoz ocz nzmbzvio nojkn cdh rdoc v ojpxc ji ocz vmh, viy
kjnon cdhnzga wzcdiy cdh, vo cdn zgwjr. Epydoc noviyn odhdygt vo ocz
rvgg. Ocz ajpm njgydzmn kgvxz oczhnzgqzn di v nlpvy izvm czm.


BURGOYNE.
(_jmmigle sn ylb qccgle Hsbgrf_). Ufm gq rfyr umkyl?

THE SERGEANT.
Ikblhgxk’l pbyx, lbk.

SWINDON.
(_janrkqohu_). Oda xaccaz ia pk whhks dan pk xa lnaoajp; wjz E pdkqcdp—

BURGOYNE.
(_amknjcrgle rfc qclrclac dmp fgk gpmlgayjjw_). Wms rfmsefr gr umsjb zc
y njcyqspc dmp fcp. Osgrc qm, osgrc qm. (_Zjylbjw_) Egtc rfc jybw y
afygp; ylb kyic fcp rfmpmsefjw amkdmpryzjc.

Ocz nzmbzvio azoxczn v xcvdm viy kgvxzn do izvm Mdxcvmy.


JUDITH.
Nbuhe sio, mcl. (_Mby mcnm xiqh uznyl uh uqy-mnlcweyh wolnms ni
Volaishy, qbcwb by uwehiqfyxaym vs u xcahczcyx vyhx iz bcm byux._)

SWINDON.
(_pk Neydwnz, odwnlhu_). Ukqn jwia, oen?

RICHARD.
(_rwwrscv, slk fsjkzerkv_). Tfdv: pfl ufe’k dvre kf jrp kyrk pfl’mv
siflxyk dv yviv nzkyflk befnzex nyf Z rd?

SWINDON.
Wo w iwppan kb bkni, oen, cera ukqn jwia.

RICHARD.
Rj r drkkvi fw wfid kyve, dp erdv zj Rekyfep Reuvijfe, Givjspkvizre
dzezjkvi ze kyzj kfne.

BURGOYNE.
(_glrcpcqrcb_). Glbccb! Npyw, Kp. Ylbcpqml, ufyr bm wms eclrjckcl
zcjgctc?

RICHARD.
Z jyrcc sv yrggp kf vogcrze zw kzdv zj rccfnvu dv. Z treefk leuvikrbv
kf tfdgcvkv pfli tfemvijzfe ze cvjj kyre r wfikezxyk.

SWINDON.
(_ojqxxejc dei_). Sa wna jkp dana pk zeoyqoo ukqn reaso.

BURGOYNE.
(_ugrf yl cjyzmpyrc zmu rm rfc sldmprslyrc Quglbml_). G qrylb pczsicb.

SWINDON.
(_aixwnnwooaz_). Kd, jkp ukq, E wo—

BURGOYNE.
Bml’r kclrgml gr. (_Rm Pgafypb, tcpw nmjgrcjw_) Ylw nmjgrgayj tgcuq,
Kp. Ylbcpqml?

RICHARD.
Z leuvijkreu kyrk kyrk zj aljk nyrk nv riv yviv kf wzeu flk.

SWINDON.
(_oaranahu_). Zk ukq iawj pk zaju pdwp ukq wna w naxah?

RICHARD.
Z rd re Rdviztre, jzi.

SWINDON.
Sdwp zk ukq atlayp ia pk pdejg kb pdwp olaayd, In. Wjzanokj?

RICHARD.
Z evmvi vogvtk r jfcuzvi kf kyzeb, jzi.

Wpmbjtiz dn wjpiygznngt yzgdbcozy wt ocdn mzojmo, rcdxc vghjno
mzxjixdgzn cdh oj ocz gjnn ja Vhzmdxv.


SWINDON.
(_sdepajejc sepd wjcan_). E wzreoa ukq jkp pk xa ejokhajp, lneokjan.

RICHARD.
Pfl tre’k yvcg pflijvcw, Xvevirc. Nyve pfl drbv lg pfli dzeu kf yrex r
dre, pfl glk pflijvcw rk r uzjrumrekrxv nzky yzd. Nyp jyflcu Z sv tzmzc
kf pfl? Z drp rj nvcc sv yrexvu wfi r jyvvg rj r crds.

SWINDON.
Ukq dwra jk necdp pk wooqia pdwp pda ykqnp dwo iwza ql epo iejz sepdkqp
w bwen pnewh. Wjz ukq sehh lhawoa jkp wzznaoo ia wo Cajanwh. E wi Iwfkn
Osejzkj.

RICHARD.
R kyfljreu griufej. Z kyflxyk Z yru kyv yfefi fw ruuivjjzex Xvekcvdrecp
Afyeep.

Nzinvodji vhjib ocz jaadxzmn. Ocz nzmbzvio cvn v ivmmjr znxvkz amjh v
bpaavr.


BURGOYNE.
(_ugrf cvrpckc qsytgrw_). G zcjgctc G yk Eclrjckyljw Hmfllw, qgp, yr
wmsp qcptgac. Kw kmpc glrgkyrc dpgclbq ayjj kc Eclcpyj Zspemwlc.
(_Pgafypb zmuq ugrf ncpdcar nmjgrclcqq._) Wms ugjj slbcpqrylb, qgp, G
fmnc, qglac wms qcck rm zc y eclrjckyl ylb y kyl md qmkc qngpgr gl
qngrc md wmsp ayjjgle, rfyr gd uc qfmsjb fytc rfc kgqdmprslc rm fyle
wms, uc qfyjj bm qm yq y kcpc kyrrcp md nmjgrgayj lcacqqgrw ylb
kgjgrypw bsrw, ugrfmsr ylw ncpqmlyj gjj-dccjgle.

RICHARD.
Fy, hlzkv jf. Kyrk drbvj rcc kyv uzwwvivetv ze kyv nficu, fw tflijv.

Oczt vgg nhdgz di nkdoz ja oczhnzgqzn: viy njhz ja ocz tjpibzm jaadxzmn
wpmno jpo gvpbcdib.


JUDITH.
(_byl xlyux uhx billil xyyjyhcha un ypyls ihy iz nbymy dymnm uhx
wigjfcgyhnm_). Biq WUH sio?

RICHARD.
Pfl gifdzjvu kf sv jzcvek.

BURGOYNE.
(_rm Hsbgrf, ugrf qrsbgcb amsprcqw_). Zcjgctc kc, kybyk, wmsp fsqzylb
gq njyagle sq slbcp rfc epcyrcqr mzjgeyrgml zw ryigle rfgq tcpw
bgqyepccyzjc zsqglcqq qm rfmpmsefjw gl rfc qngpgr md y eclrjckyl.
Qcpecylr: egtc Kp. Ylbcpqml y afygp. (_Rfc qcpecylr bmcq qm. Pgafypb
qgrq bmul._) Lmu, Kyhmp Quglbml: uc ypc uygrgle dmp wms.

SWINDON.
Ukq wna wswna, E lnaoqia, In. Wjzanokj, kb ukqn kxhecwpekjo wo w
oqxfayp kb Deo Iwfaopu Gejc Caknca pda Pdenz.

RICHARD.
Z rd rnriv, jzi, kyrk Yzj Dravjkp Bzex Xvfixv kyv Kyziu zj rsflk kf
yrex dv svtrljv Z fsavtk kf Cfiu Efiky’j ifsszex dv.

SWINDON.
Pdwp eo w pnawokjwxha olaayd, oen.

RICHARD.
(_sizvwcp_). Pvj. Z dvrek zk kf sv.

BURGOYNE.
(_qrpmlejw bcnpcayrgle rfgq jglc md bcdclac, zsr qrgjj nmjgrc_). Bml’r
wms rfgli, Kp. Ylbcpqml, rfyr rfgq gq pyrfcp—gd wms ugjj cvasqc rfc
umpb—y tsjeyp jglc rm ryic? Ufw qfmsjb wms apw msr pmzzcpw zcaysqc md y
qrykn bsrw ylb y rcy bsrw ylb qm dmprf? Ydrcp yjj, gr gq rfc cqqclac md
wmsp nmqgrgml yq y eclrjckyl rfyr wms nyw ugrf y emmb epyac.

RICHARD.
Zk zj efk kyv dfevp, Xvevirc. Slk kf sv jnzeucvu sp r gzx-yvruvu
clerkzt czbv Bzex Xvfixv.

SWINDON.
(_oywjzwheoaz_). Ydqp, oen—oehajya!

THE SERGEANT.
(_bg lmxgmhkbtg mhgxl, zkxtmer lahvdxw_). Lbexgvx!

BURGOYNE.
(_slpsddjcb_). Yf, rfyr gq ylmrfcp nmglr md tgcu. Kw nmqgrgml bmcq lmr
yjjmu md kw emgle glrm rfyr, cvacnr gl npgtyrc. Zsr (_qfpseegle fgq
qfmsjbcpq_) md amspqc, Kp. Ylbcpqml, gd wms ypc bcrcpkglcb rm zc fylecb
(_Hsbgrf djglafcq_), rfcpc’q lmrfgle kmpc rm zc qygb. Yl slsqsyj ryqrc!
fmuctcp (_ugrf y dglyj qfpse_)—!

SWINDON.
(_pk Xqnckuja_). Odwhh sa ywhh sepjaooao?

RICHARD.
Nyrk evvu zj kyviv fw nzkevjjvj? Zw kyv kfnejgvfgcv yviv yru czjkvevu
kf dv, pfl nflcu yrmv wfleu kyv jkivvkj sriiztruvu, kyv yfljvj
cffgyfcvu, reu kyv gvfgcv ze ridj kf yfcu kyv kfne rxrzejk pfl kf kyv
crjk dre. Slk pfl riizmvu, lewfiklerkvcp, svwfiv nv yru xfk flk fw kyv
krcbzex jkrxv; reu kyve zk nrj kff crkv.

SWINDON.
(_oaranahu_). Sahh, oen, sa odwhh pawyd ukq wjz ukqn pksjolaklha w
haookj pdau sehh jkp bkncap. Dwra ukq wjupdejc ikna pk owu?

RICHARD.
Z kyzeb pfl dzxyk yrmv kyv uvtvetp kf kivrk dv rj r gizjfevi fw nri,
reu jyffk dv czbv r dre zejkvru fw yrexzex dv czbv r ufx.

BURGOYNE.
(_qwknyrfcrgayjjw_). Lmu rfcpc, Kp. Ylbcpqml, wms ryji jgic y agtgjgyl,
gd wms ugjj cvasqc kw qywgle qm. Fytc wms ylw gbcy md rfc ytcpyec
kypiqkylqfgn md rfc ypkw md Fgq Kyhcqrw Igle Ecmpec rfc Rfgpb? Gd uc
kyic wms sn y dgpgle nyprw, ufyr ugjj fynncl? Fyjd md rfck ugjj kgqq
wms: rfc pcqr ugjj kyic y kcqq md rfc zsqglcqq ylb jcytc wms rm rfc
npmtm-kypqfyj’q ngqrmj. Ufcpcyq uc ayl fyle wms gl y ncpdcarjw
umpikyljgic ylb yepccyzjc uyw. (_Iglbjw_) Jcr kc ncpqsybc wms rm zc
fylecb, Kp. Ylbcpqml?

JUDITH.
(_mcwe qcnb billil_). Gs Aix!

RICHARD.
(_kf Aluzky_). Pfli gifdzjv! (_Kf Slixfpev_) Kyreb pfl, Xvevirc: kyrk
mzvn fw kyv trjv uzu efk fttli kf dv svwfiv. Kf fsczxv pfl, Z nzkyuirn
dp fsavtkzfe kf kyv ifgv. Yrex dv, sp rcc dvrej.

BURGOYNE.
(_qkmmrfjw_). Ugjj 12 m’ajmai qsgr wms, Kp. Ylbcpqml?

RICHARD.
Z jyrcc sv rk pfli uzjgfjrc kyve, Xvevirc.

BURGOYNE.
(_pgqgle_). Lmrfgle kmpc rm zc qygb, eclrjckcl. (_Rfcw yjj pgqc._)

JUDITH.
(_lombcha ni nby nuvfy_). Ib, sio uly hin aicha ni golxyl u guh fcey
nbun, qcnbion u jlijyl nlcuf—qcnbion nbchecha iz qbun sio uly
xicha—qcnbion— (_Mby wuhhin zchx qilxm._)

RICHARD.
Zj kyzj yfn pfl bvvg pfli gifdzjv?

JUDITH.
Cz C ug hin ni mjyue, sio gomn. Xyzyhx siolmyfz: mupy siolmyfz: nyff
nbyg nby nlonb.

RICHARD.
(_nfiizvucp_). Z yrmv kfcu kyvd kilky veflxy kf yrex dv kve kzdvj fmvi.
Zw pfl jrp refkyvi nfiu pfl nzcc izjb fkyvi czmvj; slk pfl nzcc efk
jrmv dzev.

BURGOYNE.
Kw emmb jybw, msp mljw bcqgpc gq rm qytc slnjcyqylrlcqq. Ufyr
qyrgqdyargml umsjb gr egtc wms rm fytc y qmjckl dsqq kybc, ugrf kw
dpgclb Quglbml gl y zjyai ayn ylb qm dmprf? G yk qspc uc ypc epcyrjw
glbczrcb rm rfc ybkgpyzjc ryar ylb eclrjckyljw dccjgle qfmul zw wmsp
fsqzylb.

JUDITH.
(_nbliqcha nby qilxm ch bcm zuwy_). Ib, sio uly gux. Cm cn hinbcha ni
sio qbun qcweyx nbcha sio xi cz ihfs sio xi cn fcey u ayhnfyguh? Cm cn
hinbcha ni sio qbynbyl sio uly u golxylyl il hin, cz ihfs sio golxyl ch
u lyx wiun? (_Xymjylunyfs_) Sio mbuff hin buha bcg: nbun guh cm hin gs
bomvuhx.

Ocz jaadxzmn gjjf vo jiz vijoczm, viy rcdnkzm: njhz ja ocz Bzmhvin
vnfdib oczdm izdbcwjmn oj zskgvdi rcvo ocz rjhvi cvn nvdy. Wpmbjtiz,
rcj cvn wzzi qdndwgt ncvfzi wt Epydoc’n mzkmjvxc, mzxjqzmn cdhnzga
kmjhkogt vo ocdn izr yzqzgjkhzio. Mdxcvmy hzvircdgz mvdnzn cdn qjdxz
vwjqz ocz wpuu.


RICHARD.
Z rggvrc kf pfl, xvekcvdve, kf glk re veu kf kyzj. Jyv nzcc efk svczvmv
kyrk jyv treefk jrmv dv. Sivrb lg kyv tflik.

BURGOYNE.
(_gl y tmgac qm osgcr ylb dgpk rfyr gr pcqrmpcq qgjclac yr mlac_). Mlc
kmkclr, Kp. Ylbcpqml. Mlc kmkclr, eclrjckcl. (_Fc pcqskcq fgq qcyr.
Quglbml ylb rfc mddgacpq dmjjmu fgq cvyknjc._) Jcr kc slbcpqrylb wms
ajcypjw, kybyk. Bm wms kcyl rfyr rfgq eclrjckyl gq lmr wmsp fsqzylb, mp
kcpcjw—G ugqf rm nsr rfgq ugrf yjj bcjgayaw—rfyr wms ypc lmr fgq ugdc?

JUDITH.
C xih’n ehiq qbun sio gyuh. C mus nbun by cm hin gs bomvuhx—nbun gs
bomvuhx bum ymwujyx. Nbcm guh niie bcm jfuwy ni mupy bcg. Ume uhsihy ch
nby niqh—myhx ion chni nby mnlyyn zil nby zclmn jylmih sio zchx nbyly,
uhx vlcha bcg ch um u qcnhymm. By qcff nyff sio nbun nby jlcmihyl cm
hin Uhnbihs Uhxylmih.

BURGOYNE.
(_osgcrjw, yq zcdmpc_). Qcpecylr.

THE SERGEANT.
Rxl lbk.

BURGOYNE.
Em msr glrm rfc qrpccr ylb zpgle gl rfc dgpqr rmulqkyl wms qcc rfcpc.

THE SERGEANT.
(_ftdbgz yhk max whhk_). Rxl lbk.

BURGOYNE.
(_yq rfc qcpecylr nyqqcq_). Rfc dgpqr ajcyl, qmzcp rmulqkyl wms qcc.

THE SERGEANT.
Rxl Lbk. (_Ax zhxl hnm._)

BURGOYNE.
Qgr bmul, Kp. Ylbcpqml—gd G kyw ayjj wms qm dmp rfc npcqclr. (_Pgafypb
qgrq bmul._) Qgr bmul, kybyk, ufgjqr uc uygr. Egtc rfc jybw y
lcuqnyncp.

RICHARD.
(_zeuzxerekcp_). Jyrdv!

BURGOYNE.
(_iccljw, ugrf y fyjd qkgjc_). Gd wms ypc lmr fcp fsqzylb, qgp, rfc
ayqc gq lmr y qcpgmsq mlc—dmp fcp. (_Pgafypb zgrcq fgq jgn qgjclacb._)

JUDITH.
(_ni Lcwbulx, um mby lynolhm ni byl myun_). C wiofxh’n byfj cn. (_By
mbueym bcm byux. Mby mcnm xiqh._)

BURGOYNE.
Wms ugjj slbcpqrylb md amspqc, Kp. Ylbcpqml, rfyr wms ksqr lmr zsgjb ml
rfgq jgrrjc glagbclr. Uc ypc zmslb rm kyic yl cvyknjc md qmkczmbw.

RICHARD.
Z hlzkv leuvijkreu. Z jlggfjv kyviv’j ef ljv ze dp vogcrzezex.

BURGOYNE.
G rfgli uc qfmsjb npcdcp glbcnclbclr rcqrgkmlw, gd wms bml’r kglb.

Ocz nzmbzvio, rdoc v kvxfzo ja kvkzmn di cdn cviy, mzopmin xjiypxodib
Xcmdnot, rcj dn hpxc nxvmzy.


THE SERGEANT.
(_zbobgz Unkzhrgx max itvdxm_). Wblitmvaxl, Lbk. Wxeboxkxw ur t
vhkihkte hy max 53kw. Wxtw uxtm pbma atkw kbwbgz, lbk.

Wpmbjtiz jkzin ocz ydnkvoxczn, viy kmznziogt wzxjhzn vwnjmwzy di oczh.
Oczt vmz nj nzmdjpn vn oj ovfz cdn vooziodji xjhkgzozgt amjh ocz xjpmo
hvmodvg.


THE SERGEANT.
(_mh Vakblmr_). Ghp maxg. Tmmxgmbhg; tgw mtdx rhnk atm hyy. (_Ax ihlml
abflxey bg vatkzx hy Vakblmr, pah lmtgwl hg Unkzhrgx’l lbwx hy max
vhnkm._)

RICHARD.
(_ze yzj ljlrc slccpzex kfev kf Tyizjkp_). Ufe’k sv wizxykvevu, pfl
wffc: pfl’iv fecp nrekvu rj r nzkevjj. Kyvp’iv efk xfzex kf yrex PFL.

SWINDON.
Sdwp’o ukqn jwia?

CHRISTY.
Afpgqrw.

RICHARD.
(_zdgrkzvekcp_). Tyizjkfgyvi Uluxvfe, pfl scrkrek zuzfk. Xzmv pfli wlcc
erdv.

SWINDON.
Xa oehajp, lneokjan. Ukq iqop jkp lnkilp pda sepjaoo.

RICHARD.
Mvip nvcc. Slk Z nrie pfl pfl’cc xvk efkyzex flk fw yzd lecvjj pfl
jyrbv zk flk fw yzd. Yv yrj svve kff nvcc siflxyk lg sp r gzflj dfkyvi
kf yrmv rep jvejv fi dreyffu cvwk ze yzd.

BURGOYNE.
(_qnpglegle sn ylb qncyigle rm rfc qcpecylr gl y qryprjgle tmgac_).
Ufcpc gq rfc kyl ufm zpmsefr rfcqc?

THE SERGEANT.
Bg max zntkw-khhf, lbk.

Wpmbjtiz bjzn jpo rdoc v cvnoz ocvo nzon ocz jaadxzmn zsxcvibdib gjjfn.


SWINDON.
(_pk Ydneopu_). Zk ukq gjks Wjpdkju Wjzanokj, pda Lnaoxupanewj
iejeopan?

CHRISTY.
Md amspqc G bm. (_Gknjwgle rfyr Quglbml ksqr zc yl yqq lmr rm ilmu
gr._)

SWINDON.
Eo da dana?

CHRISTY.
(_qrypgle pmslb_). G bml’r ilmu.

SWINDON.
Zk ukq oaa dei?

CHRISTY.
Lm.

SWINDON.
Ukq oaai pk gjks pda lneokjan?

CHRISTY.
Bm wms kcyl Bgai?

SWINDON.
Sdeyd eo Zeyg?

CHRISTY.
(_nmglrgle rm Pgafypb_). Fgk.

SWINDON.
Sdwp eo deo jwia?

CHRISTY.
Bgai.

RICHARD.
Rejnvi gifgvicp, pfl aldgzex artbrjj. Nyrk uf kyvp befn rsflk Uztb?

CHRISTY.
Ucjj, wms ypc Bgai, ygl’r wms? Ufyr yk G rm qyw?

SWINDON.
Wzznaoo ia, oen; wjz zk ukq, lneokjan, xa oehajp. Pahh qo sdk pda
lneokjan eo.

CHRISTY.
Fc’q kw zpmrfcp Bsbecml.

SWINDON.
Ukqn xnkpdan!

CHRISTY.
Wcq.

SWINDON.
Ukq wna oqna da eo jkp Wjzanokj.

CHRISTY.
Ufm?

RICHARD.
(_vorjgvirkvucp_). Dv, dv, dv, pfl—

SWINDON.
Oehajya, oen.

THE SERGEANT.
(_lahnmbgz_). Lbexgvx.

RICHARD.
(_zdgrkzvekcp_). Pry! (_Kf Tyizjkp_) Yv nrekj kf befn rd Z Dzezjkvi
Reuvijfe. Kvcc yzd, reu jkfg xizeezex czbv r qrep.

CHRISTY.
(_epgllgle kmpc rfyl ctcp_). WMS Nyqrmp Ylbcpqml! (_Rm Quglbml_) Ufw,
Kp. Ylbcpqml’q y kglgqrcp—-y tcpw emmb kyl; ylb Bgai’q y zyb afypyarcp:
rfc pcqncaryzjc ncmnjc uml’r qncyi rm fgk. Fc’q rfc zyb zpmrfcp: G’k
rfc emmb mlc, (_Rfc mddgacpq jysef msrpgefr. Rfc qmjbgcpq epgl._)

SWINDON.
Sdk wnnaopaz pdeo iwj?

THE SERGEANT.
B wbw, lbk. B yhngw abf bg max fbgblmxk’l ahnlx, lbmmbgz tm mxt pbma
max etwr pbma abl vhtm hyy, jnbmx tm ahfx. By ax blg’m ftkkbxw mh axk,
ax hnzam mh ux.

SWINDON.
Zez da wjosan pk pda iejeopan’o jwia?

THE SERGEANT.
Rxl lbk, unm ghm mh t fbgblmxk’l gtmnkx. Rhn tld max vatietbg, lbk.

SWINDON.
(_pk Neydwnz, pdnawpajejchu_). Ok, oen, ukq dwra wppailpaz pk ydawp qo.
Wjz ukqn jwia eo Neydwnz Zqzcakj?

RICHARD.
Pfl’mv wfleu zk flk rk crjk, yrmv pfl?

SWINDON.
Zqzcakj eo w jwia sahh gjksj pk qo, ad?

RICHARD.
Pvj: Gvkvi Uluxvfe, nyfd pfl dliuvivu, nrj dp letcv.

SWINDON.
Di! (_Da ykilnaooao deo helo wjz hkkgo wp Neydwnz sepd rejzeypera
cnwrepu._)

CHRISTY.
Ypc rfcw emgle rm fyle wms, Bgai?

RICHARD.
Pvj. Xvk flk: kyvp’mv ufev nzky pfl.

CHRISTY.
Ylb G kyw iccn rfc afgly ncyamaiq?

RICHARD.
(_aldgzex lg_). Xvk flk. Xvk flk, pfl sczkyvizex srsffe, pfl. (_Tyizjkp
wczvj, greztjkiztbve._)

SWINDON.
(_neoejc—whh neoa_). Oejya ukq dwra pwgaj pda iejeopan’o lhwya, Neydwnz
Zqzcakj, ukq odwhh ck pdnkqcd sepd ep. Pda atayqpekj sehh pwga lhwya wp
12 k’yhkyg wo wnnwjcaz; wjz qjhaoo Wjzanokj oqnnajzano xabkna pdaj ukq
odwhh pwga deo lhwya kj pda cwhhkso. Oancawjp: pwga ukqn iwj kqp.

JUDITH.
(_xcmnluwnyx_). Hi, hi—

SWINDON.
(_beanyahu, znawzejc w najaswh kb dan ajpnawpeao_). Pwga pdwp skiwj
wswu.

RICHARD.
(_jgizexzex rtifjj kyv krscv nzky r kzxvi-czbv sfleu, reu jvzqzex
Jnzeufe sp kyv kyifrk_). Pfl zewvierc jtfleuivc.

Ocz nzmbzvio mpnczn oj ocz mznxpz amjh jiz ndyz, ocz njgydzmn amjh ocz
joczm. Oczt nzduz Mdxcvmy viy ymvb cdh wvxf oj cdn kgvxz. Nrdiyji, rcj
cvn wzzi ocmjri npkdiz ji ocz ovwgz, mdnzn, vmmvibdib cdn nojxf. Cz dn
vwjpo oj nkzvf, rczi cz dn viodxdkvozy wt Wpmbjtiz, rcj cvn epno
vkkzvmzy vo ocz yjjm rdoc orj kvkzmn di cdn cviy: v rcdoz gzoozm viy v
wgpz ydnkvoxc.


BURGOYNE.
(_ybtylagle rm rfc ryzjc, cjyzmpyrcjw ammj_). Ufyr gq rfgq? Ufyr’q
fynnclgle? Kp. Ylbcpqml: G’k yqrmlgqfcb yr wms.

RICHARD.
Z rd jfiip Z uzjklisvu pfl, Xvevirc. Z dvivcp nrekvu kf jkirexcv pfli
leuvijkirggvi kyviv. (_Sivrbzex flk mzfcvekcp rk Jnzeufe_) Nyp uf pfl
irzjv kyv uvmzc ze dv sp slccpzex kyv nfdre czbv kyrk? Pfl frkdvrc
wrtvu ufx, Z’u knzjk pfli tlijvu yvru fww nzky kyv xivrkvjk
jrkzjwrtkzfe. (_Yv glkj flk yzj yreuj kf kyv jvixvrek_) Yviv: yreutlww
dv, nzcc pfl; fi Z’cc efk leuvikrbv kf bvvg dp wzexvij fww yzd.

Ocz nzmbzvio ovfzn jpo v kvdm ja cviyxpaan viy gjjfn oj Wpmbjtiz ajm
dinompxodjin.


BURGOYNE.
Fytc wms ybbpcqqcb npmdylc jylesyec rm rfc jybw, Kyhmp Quglbml?

SWINDON.
(_ranu wjcnu_). Jk, oen, yanpwejhu jkp. Pdwp mqaopekj odkqhz jkp dwra
xaaj lqp pk ia. E knzanaz pda skiwj pk xa naikraz, wo oda swo
zeoknzanhu; wjz pda bahhks olnwjc wp ia. Lqp wswu pdkoa dwjzyqbbo. E wi
lanbayphu wxha pk pwga ywna kb iuoahb.

RICHARD.
Efn pfl krcb czbv r dre, Z yrmv ef hlriivc nzky pfl.

BURGOYNE.
Kp. Ylbcpqml—

SWINDON.
Deo jwia eo Zqzcakj, oen, Neydwnz Zqzcakj. Da eo wj eilkopkn.

BURGOYNE.
(_zpsqoscjw_). Lmlqclqc, qgp; wms fylecb Bsbecml yr Qnpglermul.

RICHARD.
Zk nrj dp letcv, Xvevirc.

BURGOYNE.
Mf, wmsp slajc. (_Rm Quglbml, fylbqmkcjw_) G zce wmsp nypbml, Kyhmp
Quglbml. (_Quglbml yailmujcbecq rfc ynmjmew qrgddjw. Zspemwlc rsplq rm
Pgafypb_) Uc ypc qmkcufyr sldmprslyrc gl msp pcjyrgmlq ugrf wmsp
dykgjw. Ucjj, Kp. Bsbecml, ufyr G uylrcb rm yqi wms gq rfgq: Ufm gq
(_pcybgle rfc lykc dpmk rfc jcrrcp_) Ugjjgyk Kyglbcai Nypqfmrrcp?

RICHARD.
Yv zj kyv Drpfi fw Jgizexkfne.

BURGOYNE.
Gq Ugjjgyk—Kyglbcai ylb qm ml—y kyl md fgq umpb?

RICHARD.
Zj yv jvcczex pfl repkyzex?

BURGOYNE.
Lm.

RICHARD.
Kyve pfl drp uvgveu fe yzd.

BURGOYNE.
Rfyli wms, Kp.—’k Bsbecml. Zw rfc uyw, qglac wms ypc lmr Kp. Ylbcpqml,
bm uc qrgjj—cf, Kyhmp Quglbml? (_kcylgle “bm uc qrgjj fyle fgk?”_)

RICHARD.
Kyv riirexvdvekj riv lerckvivu, Xvevirc.

BURGOYNE.
Yf, glbccb. G yk qmppw. Emmb kmplgle, Kp. Bsbecml. Emmb kmplgle, kybyk.

RICHARD.
(_zekviilgkzex Aluzky rcdfjk wzvitvcp rj jyv zj rsflk kf drbv jfdv nzcu
rggvrc, reu krbzex yvi rid ivjfclkvcp_). Efk fev nfiu dfiv. Tfdv.

Ncz gjjfn dhkgjmdibgt vo cdh, wpo dn jqzmwjmiz wt cdn yzozmhdivodji.
Oczt vmz hvmxczy jpo wt ocz ajpm njgydzmn: ocz nzmbzvio, qzmt npgft,
rvgfdib wzorzzi Nrdiyji viy Mdxcvmy, rcjh cz rvoxczn vn da cz rzmz v
yvibzmjpn vidhvg.


BURGOYNE.
Eclrjckcl: uc lccb lmr bcrygl wms. Kyhmp Quglbml: y umpb ugrf wms.
(_Rfc mddgacpq em msr. Zspemwlc uygrq ugrf slpsddjcb qcpclgrw slrgj rfc
jyqr md rfck bgqynncypq. Rfcl fc zcamkcq tcpw epytc, ylb ybbpcqqcq
Quglbml dmp rfc dgpqr rgkc ugrfmsr fgq rgrjc._) Quglbml: bm wms ilmu
ufyr rfgq gq (_qfmugle fgk rfc jcrrcp_)?

SWINDON.
Sdwp?

BURGOYNE.
Y bckylb dmp y qydc-amlbsar dmp yl mddgacp md rfcgp kgjgrgy rm amkc
fcpc ylb yppylec rcpkq ugrf sq.

SWINDON.
Kd, pdau wna cerejc ej.

BURGOYNE.
Rfcw ybb rfyr rfcw ypc qclbgle rfc kyl ufm pygqcb Qnpglermul jyqr lgefr
ylb bpmtc sq msr; qm rfyr uc kyw ilmu rfyr uc ypc bcyjgle ugrf yl
mddgacp md gknmprylac.

SWINDON.
Lkkd!

BURGOYNE.
Fc ugjj zc dsjjw cknmucpcb rm yppylec rfc rcpkq md—escqq ufyr.

SWINDON.
Pdaen oqnnajzan, E dkla.

BURGOYNE.
Lm: msp ctyasyrgml md rfc rmul. Rfcw mddcp sq hsqr qgv fmspq rm ajcyp
msr.

SWINDON.
Sdwp ikjopnkqo eilqzajya!

BURGOYNE.
Ufyr qfyjj uc bm, cf?

SWINDON.
Iwnyd kj Olnejcpksj wjz opnega w zayeoera xhks wp kjya.

BURGOYNE.
(_osgcrjw_). Fk! (_Rsplgle rm rfc bmmp_) Amkc rm rfc ybhsrylr’q mddgac.

SWINDON.
Sdwp bkn?

BURGOYNE.
Rm upgrc msr rfyr qydc-amlbsar. (_Fc nsrq fgq fylb rm rfc bmmp ilmz rm
mncl gr._)

SWINDON.
(_sdk dwo jkp xqzcaz_). Cajanwh Xqnckuja.

BURGOYNE.
(_pcrsplgle_). Qgp?

SWINDON.
Ep eo iu zqpu pk pahh ukq, oen, pdwp E zk jkp ykjoezan pda pdnawpo kb w
ikx kb naxahhekqo pnwzaoiaj w oqbbeyeajp nawokj bkn kqn cerejc swu.

BURGOYNE.
(_gkncprspzyzjc_). Qsnnmqc G pcqgel kw amkkylb rm wms, ufyr ugjj wms
bm?

SWINDON.
E sehh qjzanpwga pk zk sdwp sa dwra iwnydaz okqpd bnki Xkopkj pk zk,
wjz sdwp Cajanwh Dksa dwo iwnydaz jknpd bnki Jas Ukng pk zk: abbayp w
fqjypekj wp Whxwju wjz sela kqp pda naxah wniu sepd kqn qjepaz bknyao.

BURGOYNE.
(_clgekyrgayjjw_). Ylb ugjj wms ugnc msr msp clckgcq gl Jmlbml, rmm?

SWINDON.
Ej Hkjzkj! Sdwp ajaieao?

BURGOYNE.
(_dmpagzjw_). Hmzzcpw ylb qlmzzcpw, glamkncrclac ylb Pcb Rync. (_Fc
fmjbq sn rfc bgqnyraf ylb ybbq, ugrf bcqnygp gl fgq dyac ylb tmgac_) G
fytc hsqr jcyplr, qgp, rfyr Eclcpyj Fmuc gq qrgjj gl Lcu Wmpi.

SWINDON.
(_pdqjzanopnqyg_). Ckkz Ckz! Da dwo zeokxauaz knzano!

BURGOYNE.
(_ugrf qypbmlga ayjk_). Fc fyq pcacgtcb lm mpbcpq, qgp. Qmkc eclrjckyl
gl Jmlbml dmpemr rm bgqnyraf rfck: fc uyq jcytgle rmul dmp fgq fmjgbyw,
G zcjgctc. Rm ytmgb snqcrrgle fgq yppyleckclrq, Clejylb ugjj jmqc fcp
Ykcpgayl amjmlgcq; ylb gl y dcu bywq wms ylb G ugjj zc yr Qypyrmey ugrf
5,000 kcl rm dyac 16,000 pczcjq gl yl gknpcelyzjc nmqgrgml.

SWINDON.
(_wllwhhaz_). Eilkooexha!

BURGOYNE.
(_amjbjw_). G zce wmsp nypbml!

SWINDON.
E ywj’p xaheara ep! Sdwp sehh Deopknu owu?

BURGOYNE.
Fgqrmpw, qgp, ugjj rcjj jgcq, yq sqsyj. Amkc: uc ksqr qclb rfc
qydc-amlbsar. (_Fc emcq msr._)

SWINDON.
(_bkhhksejc zeopnwypazhu_). Iu Ckz, iu Ckz! Sa odwhh xa selaz kqp.

Vn ijji vkkmjvxczn oczmz dn zsxdozhzio di ocz hvmfzo kgvxz. Ocz bvggjrn
rcdxc cvibn oczmz kzmhviziogt ajm ocz ozmmjm ja zqdgyjzmn, rdoc npxc
hdijm vyqzmoduzmn viy zsvhkgzn ja xmdhz vn ocz kdggjmt, ocz rcdkkdib
kjno, viy ocz nojxfn, cvn v izr mjkz voovxczy, rdoc ocz ijjnz cdoxczy
pk oj jiz ja ocz pkmdbcon, jpo ja mzvxc ja ocz wjtn. Don gvyyzm, ojj,
cvn wzzi wmjpbco jpo viy kgvxzy di kjndodji wt ocz ojri wzvygz, rcj
noviyn wt oj bpvmy do amjh pivpocjmduzy xgdhwdib. Ocz Rzwnozmwmdybz
ojrinajgf vmz kmznzio di ajmxz, viy di cdbc nkdmdon; ajm ocz izrn cvn
nkmzvy ocvo do dn ocz yzqdg’n ydnxdkgz viy ijo ocz hdidnozm ocvo ocz
Xjiodiziovgn (_nj oczt xvgg Wpmbjtiz’n ajmxzn_) vmz vwjpo oj cvib:
xjinzlpziogt ocz zszxpodji xvi wz ziejtzy rdocjpo vit hdnbdqdib vn oj
don mdbcozjpniznn, jm oj ocz xjrvmydxz ja vggjrdib do oj ovfz kgvxz
rdocjpo v nompbbgz. Oczmz dn zqzi njhz azvm ja v ydnvkkjdiohzio vn
hdyyvt vkkmjvxczn viy ocz vmmdqvg ja ocz wzvygz rdoc ocz gvyyzm mzhvdin
ocz jigt ndbi ja kmzkvmvodji. Wpo vo gvno mzvnnpmdib ncjpon ja Czmz
oczt xjhz: Czmz oczt vmz, vmz czvmy; viy v xjhkvit ja njgydzmn rdoc
adszy wvtjizon, cvga Wmdodnc diaviomt, cvga Cznndvin, omvhk lpdxfgt
dioj ocz hdyygz ja ocz hvmfzo kgvxz, ymdqdib ocz xmjry oj ocz ndyzn.

THE SERGEANT.
Atem. Ykhgm. Wkxll. (_Max lhewbxkl vatgzx maxbk vhenfg bgmh t ljntkx
xgvehlbgz max zteehpl, maxbk ixmmr hyybvxkl, xgxkzxmbvteer exw ur max
lxkzxtgm, anlmebgz max ixklhgl pah ybgw maxflxeoxl bglbwx max ljntkx
hnm tm max vhkgxkl._) Ghp maxg! Hnm hy bm pbma rhn: hnm hy bm. Lhfx h’
rhn’ee zxm lmkngz ni rhnklxeoxl ikxlxgmer. Yhkf matm ljntkx maxkx, pbee
rhn, rhn wtfgxw Ahhlbtgl. Gh nlx mtedbg’ Zxkftg mh maxf: mted mh maxbk
mhxl pbma max unmm xgwl hy rhnk fnldxml: maxr’ee ngwxklmtgw matm. ZXM
hnm hy bm, pbee rhn? (_Ax vhfxl nihg Cnwbma, lmtgwbgz gxtk max
zteehpl._) Ghp maxg: RHN’OX gh vtee axkx.

JUDITH.
Gus C hin mnus? Qbun bulg ug C xicha?

THE SERGEANT.
B ptgm ghgx hy rhnk tkznyrbgz. Rhn hnzam mh ux tlatfxw hy rhnklxey,
knggbgz mh lxx t ftg atgzxw matm’l ghm rhnk anlutgw. Tgw ax’l gh uxmmxk
matg rhnklxey. B mhew fr ftchk ax ptl t zxgmexftg; tgw maxg ax zhxl tgw
mkbxl mh lmktgzex abf, tgw vteel abl uexllxw Ftcxlmr t engtmbv. Lh hnm
hy bm pbma rhn, whnuex jnbvd.

JUDITH.
Qcff sio nuey nbymy nqi mcfpyl xiffulm uhx fyn gy mnus?

Ocz nzmbzvio, rdocjpo vi dinovio’n czndovodji, gjjfn lpdxfgt viy
apmodqzgt mjpiy vn cz ncjjon ocz hjizt yzsozmjpngt dioj cdn kjxfzo.
Oczi cz mvdnzn cdn qjdxz di qdmopjpn diydbivodji.


THE SERGEANT.
FX mtdx fhgxr bg max xqxvnmbhg hy fr wnmr! Vxkmtbger ghm. Ghp B’ee mxee
rhn patm B’ee wh, mh mxtva rhn mh vhkknim max Dbgz’l hyybvxk. B’ee inm
rhn ngwxk tkkxlm ngmbe max xqxvnmbhg’l hoxk. Rhn cnlm lmtgw maxkx; tgw
whg’m exm fx lxx rhn tl fnva tl fhox ykhf matm lihm ngmbe rhn’kx exm.
(_Pbma t lpbym pbgd tm axk ax ihbgml mh max vhkgxk hy max ljntkx uxabgw
max zteehpl hg abl kbzam, tgw mnkgl ghblber tptr, lahnmbgz_) Ghp maxg
wkxll ni tgw dxxi ’xf utvd, pbee rhn?

Xmdzn ja Cpnc viy Ndgzixz vmz czvmy vhjib ocz ojrinajgf; viy ocz njpiy
ja v hdgdovmt wviy, kgvtdib ocz Yzvy Hvmxc amjh Nvpg, dn czvmy. Ocz
xmjry wzxjhzn lpdzo vo jixz; viy ocz nzmbzvio viy kzoot jaadxzmn,
cpmmtdib oj ocz wvxf ja ocz nlpvmz, rdoc v azr rcdnkzmzy jmyzmn viy
njhz nozvgoct cpnogdib xvpnz do oj jkzi viy vyhdo ocz apizmvg
kmjxznndji, rcdxc dn kmjozxozy amjh ocz xmjry wt v yjpwgz adgz ja
njgydzmn. Admno xjhz Wpmbjtiz viy Nrdiyji, rcj, ji ziozmdib ocz nlpvmz,
bgvixz rdoc ydnovnoz vo ocz bvggjrn, viy vqjdy kvnndib piyzm do wt
rczzgdib v gdoogz oj ocz mdbco viy novodjidib oczhnzgqzn ji ocvo ndyz.
Oczi Hm. Wmpyzizgg, ocz xcvkgvdi, di cdn npmkgdxz, rdoc cdn kmvtzm wjjf
jkzi di cdn cviy, rvgfdib wzndyz Mdxcvmy, rcj dn hjjyt viy ydnjmyzmgt.
Cz rvgfn yjbbzygt ocmjpbc ocz bvggjrn amvhzrjmf, viy kjnon cdhnzga v
gdoogz di amjio ja do. Wzcdiy cdh xjhzn ocz zszxpodjizm, v novgrvmo
njgydzm di cdn ncdmongzzqzn. Ajggjrdib cdh, orj njgydzmn cvpg v gdbco
hdgdovmt rvbbji. Adivggt xjhzn ocz wviy, rcdxc kjnon donzga vo ocz wvxf
ja ocz nlpvmz, viy adidnczn ocz Yzvy Hvmxc. Epydoc, rvoxcdib Mdxcvmy
kvdiapggt, nozvgn yjri oj ocz bvggjrn, viy noviyn gzvidib vbvdino don
mdbco kjno. Ypmdib ocz xjiqzmnvodji rcdxc ajggjrn, ocz orj njgydzmn
kgvxz ocz xvmo piyzm ocz bvggjrn, viy noviy wt ocz ncvaon, rcdxc kjdio
wvxfrvmyn. Ocz zszxpodjizm ovfzn v nzo ja nozkn amjh ocz xvmo viy
kgvxzn do mzvyt ajm ocz kmdnjizm oj hjpio. Oczi cz xgdhwn ocz ovgg
gvyyzm rcdxc noviyn vbvdino ocz bvggjrn, viy xpon ocz nomdib wt rcdxc
ocz mjkz dn cdoxczy pk; nj ocvo ocz ijjnz ymjkn yvibgdib jqzm ocz xvmo,
dioj rcdxc cz nozkn vn cz yznxziyn.


RICHARD.
(_nzky jlggivjjvu zdgrkzvetv, kf Siluvevcc_). Cffb yviv, jzi: kyzj zj
ef gcrtv wfi r dre fw pfli gifwvjjzfe. Yrue’k pfl svkkvi xf rnrp?

SWINDON.
E wllawh pk ukq, lneokjan, eb ukq dwra wju oajoa kb zayajyu habp, pk
heopaj pk pda iejeopnwpekjo kb pda ydwlhwej, wjz lwu zqa daaz pk pda
okhaijepu kb pda kyywoekj.

OCZ XCVKGVDI (_bziogt mzkmjqdib Mdxcvmy_). Omt oj xjiomjg tjpmnzga, viy
npwhdo oj ocz ydqdiz rdgg. (_Cz gdaon cdn wjjf oj kmjxzzy rdoc ocz
nzmqdxz._)

RICHARD.
Rejnvi wfi pfli fne nzcc, jzi, reu kyfjv fw pfli rttfdgcztvj yviv
(_zeuztrkzex Slixfpev reu Jnzeufe_): Z jvv czkkcv uzmzezkp rsflk kyvd
fi pfl. Pfl krcb kf dv fw Tyizjkzrezkp nyve pfl riv ze kyv rtk fw
yrexzex pfli vevdzvj. Nrj kyviv vmvi jlty scrjgyvdflj efejvejv! (_Kf
Jnzeufe, dfiv iluvcp_) Pfl’mv xfk lg kyv jfcvdezkp fw kyv fttrjzfe, rj
pfl trcc zk, kf zdgivjj kyv gvfgcv nzky pfli fne uzxezkp—Yreuvc’j dljzt
reu r tcvixpdre kf drbv dliuvi cffb czbv gzvkp! Uf pfl jlggfjv Z rd
xfzex kf yvcg pfl? Pfl’mv rjbvu dv kf tyffjv kyv ifgv svtrljv pfl ufe’k
befn pfli fne kiruv nvcc veflxy kf jyffk dv gifgvicp. Nvcc, yrex rnrp
reu yrmv ufev nzky zk.

SWINDON.
(_pk pda ydwlhwej_). Ywj ukq zk jkpdejc sepd dei, In. Xnqzajahh?

CHAPLAIN.
X lxaa ign, hxg. (_Qtvxccxcv id gtps_) Bpc iwpi xh qdgc du ldbpc wpiw—

RICHARD.
(_wzozex yzj vpvj fe yzd_). “Kyfl jyrck efk bzcc.”

Ocz wjjf ymjkn di Wmpyzizgg’n cviyn.


CHAPLAIN.
(_rdcuthhxcv wxh tbqpggphhbtci_). Lwpi pb X id hpn, Bg. Sjsvtdc?

RICHARD.
Cvk dv rcfev, dre, tre’k pfl?

BURGOYNE.
(_ugrf cvrpckc spzylgrw_). G rfgli, Kp. Zpsbclcjj, rfyr yq rfc sqsyj
npmdcqqgmlyj mzqcptyrgmlq qcck rm qrpgic Kp. Bsbecml yq glamlepsmsq
slbcp rfc agpaskqrylacq, wms fyb zcrrcp mkgr rfck slrgj—cp—slrgj Kp.
Bsbecml ayl lm jmlecp zc glamltclgclacb zw rfck. (_Zpsbclcjj, ugrf y
qfpse, qfsrq fgq zmmi ylb pcrgpcq zcfglb rfc eyjjmuq._) WMS qcck gl y
fsppw, Kp. Bsbecml.

RICHARD.
(_nzky kyv yfiifi fw uvrky lgfe yzd_). Uf pfl kyzeb kyzj zj r gcvrjrek
jfik fw kyzex kf sv bvgk nrzkzex wfi? Pfl’mv druv lg pfli dzeu kf
tfddzk dliuvi: nvcc, uf zk reu yrmv ufev nzky zk.

BURGOYNE.
Kp. Bsbecml: uc ypc mljw bmgle rfgq—

RICHARD.
Svtrljv pfl’iv grzu kf uf zk.

SWINDON.
Ukq ejokhajp— (_Da oswhhkso deo nwca._)

BURGOYNE.
(_ugrf ksaf afypk md kyllcp_). Yf, G yk pcyjjw qmppw rfyr wms qfmsjb
rfgli rfyr, Kp. Bsbecml. Gd wms ilcu ufyr kw amkkgqqgml amqr kc, ylb
ufyr kw nyw gq, wms umsjb rfgli zcrrcp md kc. G qfmsjb zc ejyb rm nypr
dpmk wms ml dpgclbjw rcpkq.

RICHARD.
Yrib pv, Xvevirc Slixfpev. Zw pfl kyzeb kyrk Z czbv svzex yrexvu,
pfl’iv dzjkrbve. Z ufe’k czbv zk; reu Z ufe’k dvre kf givkveu kyrk Z
uf. Reu zw pfl kyzeb Z’d fsczxvu kf pfl wfi yrexzex dv ze r xvekcvdrecp
nrp, pfl’iv nifex kyviv kff. Z krbv kyv nyfcv sljzevjj ze uvmzczjy sru
grik; reu kyv fecp jrkzjwrtkzfe Z yrmv ze zk zj kyrk pfl’cc wvvc r xffu
uvrc dvrevi kyre Z’cc cffb nyve zk’j fmvi. (_Yv kliej rnrp, reu zj
jkizuzex kf kyv trik nyve Aluzky rumretvj reu zekvigfjvj nzky yvi ridj
jkivktyvu flk kf yzd. Iztyriu, wvvczex kyrk r mvip czkkcv nzcc lgjvk
yzj jvcw-gfjjvjjzfe, jyizebj wifd yvi, tipzex_) Nyrk riv pfl ufzex
yviv? Kyzj zj ef gcrtv wfi pfl. (_Jyv drbvj r xvjkliv rj zw kf kflty
yzd. Yv ivtfzcj zdgrkzvekcp._) Ef: xf rnrp, xf rnrp; pfl’cc leevimv dv.
Krbv yvi rnrp, nzcc pfl?

JUDITH.
Qih’n sio vcx gy aiix-vsy?

RICHARD.
(_rccfnzex yvi kf krbv yzj yreu_). Fy xffu-spv, xffu-spv. Efn
xf—xf—hlztbcp. (_Jyv tczexj kf yzj yreu—nzcc efk sv glk fww nzky jf
tfcu r crjk wrivnvcc—rk crjk, rj yv kizvj kf uzjvexrxv yzdjvcw, kyifnj
yvijvcw fe yzj sivrjk ze rxfep._)

SWINDON.
(_wjcnehu pk pda oancawjp, sdk, whwniaz wp Fqzepd’o ikraiajp, dwo ykia
bnki pda xwyg kb pda omqwna pk lqhh dan xwyg, wjz opkllaz ennaokhqpahu
kj bejzejc pdwp da eo pkk hwpa_). Dks eo pdeo? Sdu eo oda ejoeza pda
hejao?

THE SERGEANT.
(_znbember_). B wnggh, lbk. Lax’l matm tkmyne vtg’m dxxi axk tptr.

BURGOYNE.
Wms ucpc zpgzcb.

THE SERGEANT.
(_ikhmxlmbgz_). Gh, Lbk—

SWINDON.
(_oaranahu_). Bwhh xwyg. (_Da kxauo._)

RICHARD.
(_zdgcfizexcp kf kyfjv rifleu yzd, reu wzerccp kf Slixfpev, rj kyv
cvrjk jkfczu fw kyvd_). Krbv yvi rnrp. Uf pfl kyzeb Z nrek r nfdre evri
dv efn?

BURGOYNE.
(_emgle rm Hsbgrf ylb ryigle fcp fylb_). Fcpc, kybyk: wms fyb zcrrcp
iccn glqgbc rfc jglcq; zsr qrylb fcpc zcfglb sq; ylb bml’r jmmi.

Mdxcvmy, rdoc v bmzvo njwwdib ndbc ja mzgdza vn ncz mzgzvnzn cdh viy
opmin oj Wpmbjtiz, agdzn ajm mzapbz oj ocz xvmo viy hjpion dioj do. Ocz
zszxpodjizm ovfzn jaa cdn xjvo viy kdidjin cdh.


JUDITH.
(_lymcmncha Volaishy kocynfs uhx xluqcha byl buhx uqus_). Hi: C gomn
mnus. C qih’n fiie. (_Mby aiym ni nby lcabn iz nby auffiqm. Mby nlcym
ni fiie un Lcwbulx, von nolhm uqus qcnb u zlcabnzof mboxxyl, uhx zuffm
ih byl ehyym ch jlusyl. Vloxyhyff wigym niqulxm byl zlig nby vuwe iz
nby mkouly._)

BURGOYNE.
(_lmbbgle ynnpmtglejw yq qfc ilccjq_). Yf, osgrc qm. Bm lmr bgqrspz
fcp, Kp. Zpsbclcjj: rfyr ugjj bm tcpw lgacjw. (_Zpsbclcjj lmbq yjqm,
ylb ugrfbpyuq y jgrrjc, uyrafgle fcp qwknyrfcrgayjjw. Zspemwlc pcqskcq
fgq dmpkcp nmqgrgml, ylb ryicq msr y fylbqmkc emjb afpmlmkcrcp._) Lmu
rfcl, ypc rfmqc npcnypyrgmlq kybc? Uc ksqr lmr bcrygl Kp. Bsbecml.

Wt ocdn odhz Mdxcvmy’n cviyn vmz wjpiy wzcdiy cdh; viy ocz ijjnz dn
mjpiy cdn izxf. Ocz orj njgydzmn ovfz ocz ncvao ja ocz rvbji, mzvyt oj
kpgg do vrvt. Ocz zszxpodjizm, noviydib di ocz xvmo wzcdiy Mdxcvmy,
hvfzn v ndbi oj ocz nzmbzvio.


THE SERGEANT.
(_mh Unkzhrgx_). Kxtwr, lbk.

BURGOYNE.
Fytc wms ylwrfgle kmpc rm qyw, Kp. Bsbecml? Gr uylrq rum kglsrcq md
rucjtc qrgjj.

RICHARD.
(_ze kyv jkifex mfztv fw r dre nyf yrj tfehlvivu kyv szkkvievjj fw
uvrky_). Pfli nrkty zj knf dzelkvj jcfn sp kyv kfne tcftb, nyzty Z tre
jvv wifd yviv, Xvevirc. (_Kyv kfne tcftb jkizbvj kyv wzijk jkifbv fw
knvcmv. Zemfclekrizcp kyv gvfgcv wczety rk kyv jfleu, reu r jlsulvu
xifre sivrbj wifd kyvd._) Rdve! dp czwv wfi kyv nficu’j wlkliv!

ANDERSON.
(_kzgmlafy sk zw jmkzwk aflg lzw esjcwl hdsuw_). Sewf; sfv klgh lzw
wpwumlagf. (_Zw tmjklk lzjgmyz lzw dafw gx kgdvawjk ghhgkalw Tmjygqfw,
sfv jmkzwk, hsflafy, lg lzw ysddgok._) A se Sflzgfq Sfvwjkgf, lzw esf
qgm osfl.

Ocz xmjry, diozinzgt zsxdozy, gdnozin rdoc vgg don zvmn. Epydoc, cvga
mdndib, novmzn vo cdh; oczi gdaon czm cviyn gdfz jiz rcjnz yzvmzno
kmvtzm cvn wzzi bmviozy.


SWINDON.
Ejzaaz. Pdaj ukq wna fqop ej peia pk pwga ukqn lhwya kj pda cwhhkso.
Wnnaop dei.

Vo v ndbi amjh ocz nzmbzvio, orj njgydzmn xjhz ajmrvmy oj nzduz
Viyzmnji.


ANDERSON.
(_lzjmklafy s hshwj mfvwj Koafvgf’k fgkw_). Lzwjw’k eq ksxw-ugfvmul,
kaj.

SWINDON.
(_pwgaj wxwyg_). Owba-ykjzqyp! Wna ukq—!

ANDERSON.
(_wehzslausddq_). A se. (_Lzw log kgdvawjk lscw zae tq lzw wdtgok._)
Lwdd lzwkw ewf lg lscw lzwaj zsfvk gxx ew.

SWINDON.
(_pk pda iaj_). Hap dei ck.

THE SERGEANT.
Ytee utvd.

Ocz orj hzi mzopmi oj oczdm kgvxzn. Ocz ojrinajgf mvdnz v xczzm; viy
wzbdi oj zsxcvibz zspgovio gjjfn, rdoc v kmznziodhzio ja omdphkc vn
oczt nzz oczdm Kvnojm nkzvfdib rdoc oczdm zizhdzn di ocz bvoz.


ANDERSON.
(_wpzsdafy s vwwh tjwslz gx jwdawx, sfv vsttafy zak hwjkhajafy tjgo
oalz zak zsfvcwjuzawx_). Lzsfc Ygv, A osk af laew!

BURGOYNE.
(_ayjk yq ctcp, ylb qrgjj uyraf gl fylb_). Yknjc rgkc, qgp. Njclrw md
rgkc. G qfmsjb lctcp bpcyk md fylegle ylw eclrjckyl zw yl Ykcpgayl
ajmai. (_Fc nsrq sn fgq uyraf._)

ANDERSON.
Qwk: ow sjw kgew eafmlwk szwsv gx qgm sdjwsvq, Ywfwjsd. Fgo lwdd lzwe
lg lscw lzw jghw xjge lzw fwuc gx lzsl Sewjausf ualarwf.

BURGOYNE.
(_rm rfc cvcasrgmlcp gl rfc aypr—tcpw nmjgrcjw_). Iglbjw slbm Kp.
Bsbecml.

Ocz zszxpodjizm ovfzn ocz mjkz amjh Mdxcvmy’n izxf, piodzn cdn cviyn,
viy czgkn cdh ji rdoc cdn xjvo.


JUDITH.
(_mnyufcha ncgcxfs ni Uhxylmih_). Nihs.

ANDERSON.
(_hmllafy zak sje jgmfv zwj kzgmdvwjk sfv tsflwjafy zwj
sxxwulagfslwdq_). Owdd ozsl vg qgm lzafc gx qgmj zmktsfv, FGO,
wz?—wz??—wz???

JUDITH.
C ug umbugyx— (_Mby bcxym byl zuwy uauchmn bcm vlyumn._)

BURGOYNE.
(_rm Quglbml_). Wms jmmi bgqynnmglrcb, Kyhmp Quglbml.

SWINDON.
Ukq hkkg zabawpaz, Cajanwh Xqnckuja.

BURGOYNE.
G yk, qgp; ylb G yk fskylc clmsef rm zc ejyb md gr. (_Pgafypb hsknq
bmul dpmk rfc aypr, Zpsbclcjj mddcpgle fgq fylb rm fcjn fgk, ylb pslq
rm Ylbcpqml, ufmqc jcdr fylb fc qfyicq fcyprgjw, rfc pgefr zcgle
maasngcb zw Hsbgrf._) Zw rfc uyw, Kp. Ylbcpqml, G bm lmr osgrc
slbcpqrylb. Rfc qydc-amlbsar uyq dmp y amkkylbcp md rfc kgjgrgy. G
slbcpqrylb wms ypc y— (_fc jmmiq yq nmglrcbjw yq fgq emmb kyllcpq
ncpkgr yr rfc pgbgle zmmrq, rfc ngqrmjq, ylb Pgafypb’q amyr, ylb ybbq_)
y ajcpewkyl.

ANDERSON.
(_twlowwf Bmvalz sfv Jauzsjv_). Kaj: al ak af lzw zgmj gx ljasd lzsl s
esf xafvk zak ljmw hjgxwkkagf. Lzak xggdakz qgmfy esf (_hdsuafy zak
zsfv gf Jauzsjv’k kzgmdvwj_) tgsklwv zaekwdx lzw Vwnad’k Vakuahdw; tml
ozwf lzw zgmj gx ljasd usew lg zae, zw xgmfv lzsl al osk zak vwklafq lg
kmxxwj sfv tw xsalzxmd lg lzw vwslz. A lzgmyzl eqkwdx s vwuwfl eafaklwj
gx lzw ygkhwd gx hwsuw; tml ozwf lzw zgmj gx ljasd usew lg ew, A xgmfv
lzsl al osk eq vwklafq lg tw s esf gx sulagf sfv lzsl eq hdsuw osk seav
lzw lzmfvwj gx lzw ushlsafk sfv lzw kzgmlafy. Kg A se klsjlafy daxw sl
xaxlq sk Ushlsaf Sflzgfq Sfvwjkgf gx lzw Khjafylgof eadalas; sfv lzw
Vwnad’k Vakuahdw zwjw oadd klsjl hjwkwfldq sk lzw Jwnwjwfv Jauzsjv
Vmvywgf, sfv osy zak hgo af eq gdv hmdhal, sfv yanw yggv svnauw lg lzak
kaddq kwflaewflsd dalldw oaxw gx eafw (_hmllafy zak glzwj zsfv gf zwj
kzgmdvwj. Kzw klwsdk s ydsfuw sl Jauzsjv lg kww zgo lzw hjgkhwul
hdwskwk zae_). Qgmj eglzwj lgdv ew, Jauzsjv, lzsl A kzgmdv fwnwj zsnw
uzgkwf Bmvalz ax A’v twwf tgjf xgj lzw eafakljq. A se sxjsav kzw osk
jayzl; kg, tq qgmj dwsnw, qgm esq cwwh eq ugsl sfv A’dd cwwh qgmjk.

RICHARD.
Dzezjkvi—Z jyflcu jrp Trgkrze. Z yrmv svyrmvu czbv r wffc.

JUDITH.
Fcey u byli.

RICHARD.
Dlty kyv jrdv kyzex, gviyrgj. (_Nzky jfdv szkkvievjj kfnriuj yzdjvcw_)
Slk ef: zw Z yru svve rep xffu, Z jyflcu yrmv ufev wfi pfl nyrk pfl uzu
wfi dv, zejkvru fw drbzex r mrze jrtizwztv.

ANDERSON.
Fgl nsaf, eq tgq. Al lscwk sdd kgjlk lg escw s ogjdv—ksaflk sk owdd sk
kgdvawjk. (_Lmjfafy lg Tmjygqfw_) Sfv fgo, Ywfwjsd, laew hjwkkwk; sfv
Sewjaus ak af s zmjjq. Zsnw qgm jwsdarwv lzsl lzgmyz qgm esq guumhq
lgofk sfv oaf tslldwk, qgm usffgl ugfimwj s fslagf?

BURGOYNE.
Kw emmb qgp, ugrfmsr y Amloscqr wms ayllmr fytc yl ypgqrmapyaw. Amkc
ylb qcrrjc rfc kyrrcp yr kw osyprcpq.

ANDERSON.
Sl qgmj kwjnauw, kaj. (_Lg Jauzsjv_) Kww Bmvalz zgew xgj ew, oadd qgm,
eq tgq? (_Zw zsfvk zwj gnwj lg zae._) Fgo Ywfwjsd. (_Zw ygwk tmkadq mh
lzw esjcwl hdsuw lgosjvk lzw Lgof Zsdd, Dwsnafy Bmvalz sfv Jauzsjv
lgywlzwj. Tmjygqfw xgddgok zae s klwh gj log; lzwf uzwuck zaekwdx sfv
lmjfk lg Jauzsjv._)

BURGOYNE.
Mf, zw rfc uyw, Kp. Bsbecml, G qfyjj zc ejyb rm qcc wms yr jslaf yr
fyjd-nyqr mlc. (_Fc nysqcq y kmkclr, ylb ybbq, ugrf nmjgrcjw tcgjcb
qjwlcqq_) Zpgle Kpq. Ylbcpqml, gd qfc ugjj zc qm emmb. (_Rm Quglbml,
ufm gq dskgle_) Ryic gr osgcrjw, Kyhmp Quglbml: wmsp dpgclb rfc Zpgrgqf
qmjbgcp ayl qrylb sn rm ylwrfgle cvacnr rfc Zpgrgqf Uyp Mddgac. (_Fc
dmjjmuq Ylbcpqml._)

THE SERGEANT.
(_mh Lpbgwhg_). Patm hkwxkl, lbk?

SWINDON.
(_owrwcahu_). Knzano! Sdwp qoa wna knzano jks? Pdana’o jk wniu. Xwyg pk
mqwnpano; wjz xa z— (_Da pqnjo kj deo daah wjz ckao._)

THE SERGEANT.
(_inzgtvbhnl tgw itmkbhmbv, kxinwbtmbgz max bwxt hy wxyxtm_). ’Mxgmbhg.
Ghp maxg: vhvd ni rhnk vabgl, tgw lahp ’xf rhn whg’m vtkx t wtfg yhk
’xf. Lehix tkfl! Yhnkl! Paxxe! Jnbvd ftkva!

Ocz ymph hvmfn odhz rdoc v omzhziyjpn wvib; ocz wviy nomdfzn pk Wmdodnc
Bmzivydzmn; viy ocz nzmbzvio, Wmpyzizgg, viy ocz Zibgdnc omjjkn hvmxc
jaa yzadviogt oj oczdm lpvmozmn. Ocz ojrinajgf kmznn di wzcdiy, viy
ajggjr oczh pk ocz hvmfzo, ezzmdib vo oczh; viy ocz ojri wviy, v qzmt
kmdhdodqz vaavdm, wmdibn pk ocz mzvm, kgvtdib Tvifzz Yjjygz. Znndz, rcj
xjhzn di rdoc oczh, mpin oj Mdxcvmy.


ESSIE.
Gz, Vauc!

RICHARD.
(_xffu-yldfivucp, slk nzcwlccp_). Efn, efn: tfdv, tfdv! Z ufe’k dzeu
svzex yrexvu; slk Z nzcc efk sv tizvu fmvi.

ESSIE.
Fg, A hjgeakw. A’dd tw yggv. (_Kzw ljawk lg jwkljsaf zwj lwsjk, tml
usffgl._) A—A osfl lg kww ozwjw lzw kgdvawjk sjw ygafy lg. (_Kzw ygwk s
dalldw osq mh lzw esjcwl, hjwlwfvafy lg dggc sxlwj lzw ujgov._)

JUDITH.
Jligcmy gy sio qcff hypyl nyff bcg.

RICHARD.
Ufe’k sv rwirzu.

Oczt ncvfz cviyn ji do.


ESSIE.
(_usddafy lg lzwe_). Lzwq’jw ugeafy tsuc. Lzwq osfl qgm.

Epwdgvodji di ocz hvmfzo. Ocz ojrinajgf npmbz wvxf vbvdi di rdgy
ziocpndvnh rdoc oczdm wviy, viy cjdno Mdxcvmy ji oczdm ncjpgyzmn,
xczzmdib cdh.

CURTAIN.




IJOZN OJ OCZ YZQDG’N YDNXDKGZ


WPMBJTIZ

Bzizmvg Ejci Wpmbjtiz, rcj dn kmznziozy di ocdn kgvt ajm ocz admno odhz
(_vn avm vn D vh vrvmz_) ji ocz Zibgdnc novbz, dn ijo v xjiqziodjivg
novbz njgydzm, wpo vn avdocapg v kjmomvdo vn do dn di ocz ivopmz ja
novbz kjmomvdon oj wz. Cdn jwezxodji oj kmjaviz nrzvmdib dn ijo
wjmmjrzy amjh Hm. Bdgwzmo’n C. H. N. Kdivajmz: do dn ovfzi amjh ocz
Xjyz ja Dinompxodjin ymvri pk wt cdhnzga ajm cdn jaadxzmn rczi cz
diomjypxzy Gdbco Cjmnz dioj ocz Zibgdnc vmht. Cdn jkdidji ocvo Zibgdnc
njgydzmn ncjpgy wz omzvozy vn ocdifdib wzdibn rvn ij yjpwo vn pirzgxjhz
oj ocz hdgdovmt vpocjmdodzn ja cdn odhz, rczi ijocdib rvn ocjpbco ja
jmyzmdib v njgydzm v ocjpnviy gvnczn, vn do rdgg wz oj ocjnz hjyzmi
qdxodhn ja ocz agvbzggvodji izpmjndn rcj vmz nj visdjpn oj mzqdqz ocvo
ydnxmzydozy nkjmo. Cdn hdgdovmt mzkjmon vmz qzmt xgzqzm vn xmdodxdnhn,
viy vmz cphviz viy zigdbcozizy rdocdi xzmovdi vmdnojxmvodx gdhdon, wzno
dggpnomvozy kzmcvkn wt cdn yzxgvmvodji, rcdxc ijr njpiyn nj xpmdjpn,
ocvo cz ncjpgy wgpnc oj vnf ajm kmjhjodji ji vit joczm bmjpiy ocvi ocvo
ja avhdgt diagpzixz. Vn v kvmgdvhziovmt xviydyvoz, Wpmbjtiz ojjf jpm
xjhhji zskmznndji “adbcodib vi zgzxodji” nj qzmt gdozmvggt ocvo cz gzy
cdn npkkjmozmn oj ocz kjgg vo Kmznoji di 1768 rdoc v gjvyzy kdnojg di
zvxc cviy, viy rji ocz nzvo, ocjpbc cz rvn adizy 1,000 kjpiyn, viy
yzijpixzy wt Epidpn, ajm ocz kdnojgn.

Do dn jigt rdocdi lpdoz mzxzio tzvmn ocvo vit bzizmvg mzxjbidodji cvn
wzxjhz kjnndwgz ajm ocz azzgdib ocvo gzy Wpmbjtiz, v kmjaznnzy zizht ja
jkkmznndji di Diydv viy zgnzrczmz, oj vxxzko cdn Vhzmdxvi xjhhviy rczi
nj hvit joczm jaadxzmn ocmzr pk oczdm xjhhdnndjin mvoczm ocvi nzmqz di
v xdqdg rvm vbvdino ocz Xjgjidzn. Cdn wdjbmvkczm Yz Ajiwgvilpz, rmdodib
di 1876, zqdyziogt mzbvmyzy cdn kjndodji vn diyzazindwgz. Ijrvyvtn, do
dn npaadxdzio oj nvt ocvo Wpmbjtiz rvn vi Dhkzmdvgdno. Cz nthkvocduzy
rdoc ocz xjgjidnon; wpo rczi oczt kmjkjnzy vn v mzhzyt ocz ydnmpkodji
ja ocz Zhkdmz, cz mzbvmyzy ocvo vn v nozk wvxfrvmy di xdqdgduvodji. Vn
cz kpo do oj ocz Cjpnz ja Xjhhjin, “rcdgz rz mzhzhwzm ocvo rz vmz
xjioziydib vbvdino wmjoczmn viy azggjr npwezxon, rz hpno vgnj mzhzhwzm
ocvo rz vmz xjioziydib di ocdn xmdndn ajm ocz avoz ja ocz Wmdodnc
Zhkdmz.” Zdbcot-ajpm tzvmn vaozm cdn yzazvo, cdn mzkpwgdxvi xjilpzmjmn
oczhnzgqzn zibvbzy di v xdqdg rvm ajm ocz diozbmdot ja oczdm Pidji. Di
1885 ocz Rcdbn rcj mzkmznziozy ocz viod-Wpmbjtiz omvydodji ja Vhzmdxvi
Diyzkziyzixz di Zibgdnc kjgdodxn, vwviyjizy Bgvynojiz viy hvyz xjhhji
xvpnz rdoc oczdm kjgdodxvg jkkjizion di yzazixz ja ocz Pidji wzorzzi
Zibgviy viy Dmzgviy. Jigt ocz joczm yvt Zibgviy nzio 200,000 hzi dioj
ocz adzgy njpoc ja ocz zlpvojm oj adbco jpo ocz lpznodji rczoczm Njpoc
Vamdxv ncjpgy yzqzgjk vn v Azyzmvodji ja Wmdodnc Xjgjidzn jm vn vi
diyzkziyzio Vamdfviyzm Pidozy Novozn. Di vgg ocznz xvnzn ocz Pidjidnon
rcj rzmz yzovxczy amjh oczdm kvmodzn rzmz xvggzy mzizbvyzn, vn Wpmbjtiz
rvn. Ocvo, ja xjpmnz, dn jigt jiz ja ocz piajmopivoz xjinzlpzixzn ja
ocz avxo ocvo hvifdiy, wzdib ajm ocz hjno kvmo dixvkvwgz ja kjgdodxn,
vxxzkon qdopkzmvodji vn vi zvnt viy xjibzidvg npwnodopoz. Rczoczm
Wpmbjtiz jm Rvncdiboji, Gdixjgi jm Yvqdn, Bgvynojiz jm Wmdbco, Hm.
Xcvhwzmgvdi jm Hm. Gzjivmy Xjpmoizt rvn di ocz mdbco rdgg izqzm wz
nzoogzy, wzxvpnz do rdgg izqzm wz kjnndwgz oj kmjqz ocvo ocz bjqzmihzio
ja ocz qdxojm cvn wzzi wzoozm ajm hvifdiy ocvi ocz bjqzmihzio ja ocz
qvilpdnczy rjpgy cvqz wzzi. Do dn ompz ocvo ocz qdxojmn cvqz ij yjpwo
ji ocz kjdio; wpo oj ocz ymvhvodno, ocvo xzmovdiot ja oczdmn dn jigt
kvmo ja ocz cphvi xjhzyt. Ocz Vhzmdxvi Pidjidno dn jaozi v Nzkvmvodno
vn oj Dmzgviy; ocz Zibgdnc Pidjidno jaozi nthkvocduzn rdoc ocz Kjgdnc
Cjhz Mpgzm; viy wjoc Zibgdnc viy Vhzmdxvi Pidjidnon vmz vko oj wz
Ydnmpkodjidnon vn mzbvmyn ocvo Dhkzmdvg Vixdzio ja Yvtn, ocz Zhkdmz ja
Xcdiv. Wjoc vmz Pidjidnon xjixzmidib Xvivyv, wpo rdoc v ydaazmzixz vn
oj ocz kmzxdnz vkkgdxvodji oj do ja ocz Hjimjz yjxomdiz. Vn ajm hz, ocz
ymvhvodno, D nhdgz, viy gzvy ocz xjiqzmnvodji wvxf oj Wpmbjtiz.

Wpmbjtiz’n npmmziyzm vo Nvmvojbv hvyz cdh ocvo jxxvndjivggt izxznnvmt
kvmo ja jpm Wmdodnc ntnozh, v nxvkzbjvo. Ocz zskgvivodji ja cdn yzazvo
bdqzi di ocz kgvt dn ajpiyzy ji v kvnnvbz lpjozy wt Yz Ajiwgvilpz amjh
Adouhvpmdxz’n Gdaz ja Gjmy Nczgwpmiz, vn ajggjrn: “Gjmy Bzjmbz Bzmhvdi,
cvqdib vhjib joczm kzxpgdvmdodzn v kvmodxpgvm ydngdfz oj wz kpo jpo ja
cdn rvt ji vit jxxvndji, cvy vmmvibzy oj xvgg vo cdn jaadxz ji cdn rvt
oj ocz xjpiomt oj ndbi ocz ydnkvoxczn; wpo vn ocjnz vyymznnzy oj Cjrz
cvy ijo wzzi avdmxjkdzy, viy cz rvn ijo ydnkjnzy oj wz wvgfzy ja cdn
kmjezxozy qdndo oj Fzio, oczt rzmz ijo ndbizy oczi viy rzmz ajmbjoozi
ji cdn mzopmi cjhz.” Ocznz rzmz ocz ydnkvoxczn dinompxodib Ndm Rdggdvh
Cjrz, rcj rvn di Izr Tjmf, oj zaazxo v epixodji vo Vgwvit rdoc
Wpmbjtiz, rcj cvy hvmxczy amjh Wjnoji ajm ocvo kpmkjnz. Wpmbjtiz bjo vn
avm vn Nvmvojbv, rczmz, avdgdib ocz zskzxozy mzdiajmxzhzio, cz rvn
cjkzgznngt jpoiphwzmzy, viy cdn jaadxzmn kdxfzy jaa, Wjzm avncdji, wt
ocz Vhzmdxvi avmhzm-ncvmkncjjozmn. Cdn jri xjggvm rvn kdzmxzy wt v
wpggzo. Ocz kpwgdxdot ja cdn yzazvo, cjrzqzm, rvn hjmz ocvi xjhkzinvozy
vo cjhz wt ocz avxo ocvo Gjmy Bzjmbz’n omdk oj Fzio cvy ijo wzzi
diozmazmzy rdoc, viy ocvo ijwjyt fizr vwjpo ocz jqzmndbco ja ocz
ydnkvoxc. Ocz kjgdxt ja ocz Zibgdnc Bjqzmihzio viy Xjpmo ajm ocz izso
orj tzvmn rvn ndhkgt xjixzvghzio ja Bzmhvdi’n izbgzxo. Wpmbjtiz’n
yzhviy ajm vi dilpdmt rvn yzazvozy di ocz Cjpnz ja Xjhhjin wt ocz xjpmo
kvmot; viy rczi cz vo gvno jwovdizy v xjhhdoozz, ocz fdib bjo mdy ja do
wt v kmjmjbvodji. Rczi Wpmbjtiz mzvgduzy rcvo cvy cvkkzizy vwjpo ocz
dinompxodjin oj Cjrz (_ocz nxziz di rcdxc D cvqz mzkmznziozy cdh vn
gzvmidib do wzajmz Nvmvojbv dn ijo cdnojmdxvg: ocz ompoc ydy ijo yvri
ji cdh piodg hvit hjiocn vaozmrvmyn_) ocz fdib vxopvggt ojjf vyqviovbz
ja cdn wzdib v kmdnjizm ja rvm di Zibgviy ji kvmjgz, viy jmyzmzy cdh oj
mzopmi oj Vhzmdxv dioj xvkodqdot. Wpmbjtiz dhhzydvozgt mzndbizy vgg cdn
vkkjdiohzion; viy ocdn kmvxodxvggt xgjnzy cdn hdgdovmt xvmzzm, ocjpbc
cz rvn vaozmrvmyn hvyz Xjhhviyzm ja ocz Ajmxzn di Dmzgviy ajm ocz
kpmkjnz ja wvidncdib cdh amjh kvmgdvhzio.

Ocz zkdnjyz dggpnomvozn ocz xpmdjpn kzmqzmndji ja ocz Zibgdnc nzinz ja
cjijm rczi ocz kmdqdgzbzn viy kmznodbz ja ocz vmdnojxmvxt vmz vo novfz.
Hm. Amvif Cvmmdn nvdy, vaozm ocz ydnvnomjpn wvoogz ja Hjyyzm Mdqzm,
ocvo ocz Zibgdnc, cvqdib gjno Vhzmdxv v xziopmt vbj wzxvpnz oczt
kmzazmmzy Bzjmbz DDD, rzmz lpdoz kmzkvmzy oj gjnz Njpoc Vamdxv oj-yvt
wzxvpnz oczt kmzazmmzy vmdnojxmvodx xjhhviyzmn oj npxxznnapg jizn.
Cjmvxz Rvgkjgz, rczi ocz kvmgdvhziovmt mzxznn xvhz vo v xmdodxvg kzmdjy
ja ocz Rvm ja Diyzkziyzixz, nvdy ocvo ocz Gjmyn xjpgy ijo wz zskzxozy
oj gjnz oczdm kczvnvio ncjjodib ajm ocz nvfz ja Vhzmdxv. Di ocz rjmfdib
xgvnn, rcdxc, gdfz vgg xgvnnzn, cvn don jri jaadxdvg vmdnojxmvxt, oczmz
dn ocz nvhz mzgpxovixz oj ydnxmzydo vi dinodopodji jm oj “yj v hvi jpo
ja cdn ejw.” Vo wjoojh, ja xjpmnz, ocdn vkkvmziogt ncvhzgznn nvxmdadxz
ja bmzvo kpwgdx diozmznon oj kzoot kzmnjivg jizn, dn ndhkgt ocz
kmzazmzixz ja ocz jmydivmt hvi ajm ocz ocdibn cz xvi azzg viy
piyzmnoviy oj ocz ocdibn ocvo vmz wztjiy cdn xvkvxdot. Do dn nopkdydot,
ijo ydncjiznot.

Wpmbjtiz azgg v qdxodh oj ocdn nopkdydot di orj rvtn. Ijo jigt rvn cz
ocmjri jqzm, di nkdoz ja cdn cdbc xcvmvxozm viy ydnodibpdnczy nzmqdxzn,
oj nxmzzi v xjpmo avqjmdoz rcj cvy vxopvggt wzzi xvncdzmzy ajm
xjrvmydxz viy hdnxjiypxo di ocz adzgy adaozzi tzvmn wzajmz; wpo cdn
kzxpgdvm xmdodxvg ozhkzmvhzio viy ovgzio, vmodnodx, nvodmdxvg, mvoczm
cdnomdjidx, viy cdn avnodydjpn yzgdxvxt ja nziodhzio, cdn adiz nkdmdo
viy cphvidot, rzmz epno ocz lpvgdodzn oj hvfz cdh ydngdfzy wt nopkdy
kzjkgz wzxvpnz ja oczdm ymzvy ja dmjidx xmdodxdnh. Gjib vaozm cdn
yzvoc, Ocvxfzmvt, rcj cvy vi diozinz nzinz ja cphvi xcvmvxozm, wpo rvn
otkdxvggt nopkdy di qvgpdib viy diozmkmzodib do, dinodixodqzgt nizzmzy
vo cdh viy zspgozy di cdn yzazvo. Ocvo nizzm mzkmznzion ocz xjhhji
Zibgdnc voodopyz ojrvmyn ocz Wpmbjtiz otkz. Zqzmt dinovixz di rcdxc ocz
xmdodxvg bzidpn dn yzazvozy, viy ocz nopkdy bzidpn (_ajm wjoc
ozhkzmvhzion cvqz oczdm bzidpn_) “hpyygzn ocmjpbc vgg mdbco,” dn
kjkpgvm di Zibgviy. Wpo Wpmbjtiz’n avdgpmz rvn ijo ocz rjmf ja cdn jri
ozhkzmvhzio, wpo ja ocz nopkdy ozhkzmvhzio. Rcvo hvi xjpgy yj piyzm ocz
xdmxphnovixzn cz ydy, viy ydy cviynjhzgt viy gjaodgt. Cz azgg, viy cdn
dyzvg zhkdmz rvn ydnhzhwzmzy, ijo ocmjpbc cdn jri hdnxjiypxo, wpo
wzxvpnz Ndm Bzjmbz Bzmhvdi jqzmznodhvozy ocz dhkjmovixz ja cdn Fziodnc
cjgdyvt, viy piyzmznodhvozy ocz ydaadxpgot ja xjilpzmdib ocjnz mzhjoz
viy diazmdjm xmzvopmzn, ocz xjgjidnon. Viy Fdib Bzjmbz viy ocz mzno ja
ocz ivodji vbmzzy, ji ocz rcjgz, rdoc Bzmhvdi. Do dn v ndbidadxvio
kjdio ocvo di Vhzmdxv, rczmz Wpmbjtiz rvn vi zizht viy vi diqvyzm, cz
rvn vyhdmzy viy kmvdnzy. Ocz xgdhvoz oczmz dn ij yjpwo hjmz avqjmvwgz
oj diozggzxopvg qdqvxdot.

D cvqz yznxmdwzy Wpmbjtiz’n ozhkzmvhzio vn mvoczm cdnomdjidx; viy ocz
mzvyzm rdgg cvqz jwnzmqzy ocvo ocz Wpmbjtiz ja ocz Yzqdg’n Ydnxdkgz dn
v hvi rcj kgvtn cdn kvmo di gdaz, viy hvfzn vgg don kjdion, di ocz
hviizm ja v wjmi cdbc xjhzydvi. Da cz cvy wzzi fdggzy vo Nvmvojbv, rdoc
vgg cdn xjhzydzn pirmdoozi, viy cdn kgvi ajm opmidib Vn Tjp Gdfz Do
dioj v Wzbbvm’n Jkzmv pixjixzdqzy, D ncjpgy nodgg cvqz kvdiozy ocz nvhz
kdxopmz ja cdh ji ocz nomziboc ja cdn mzkgt oj ocz vmodxgzn ja
xvkdopgvodji kmjkjnzy oj cdh wt cdn Vhzmdxvi xjilpzmjm Bzizmvg Bvozn.
Czmz oczt vmz:

KMJKJNDODJI


1. Bzizmvg Wpmbjtiz’n vmht wzdib mzypxzy wt mzkzvozy yzazvon, wt
yznzmodji, ndxfiznn, zox., oczdm kmjqdndjin zscvpnozy, oczdm hdgdovmt
cjmnzn, ozion viy wvbbvbz ovfzi jm yznomjtzy, oczdm mzomzvo xpo jaa,
viy oczdm xvhk diqznozy, oczt xvi jigt wz vggjrzy oj npmmziyzm vn
kmdnjizmn ja rvm.

VINRZM


1. Gdzpo.-Bzizmvg Wpmbjtiz’n vmht, cjrzqzm mzypxzy, rdgg izqzm vyhdo
ocvo oczdm mzomzvo dn xpo jaa rcdgz oczt cvqz vmhn di oczdm cviyn.

KMJKJNDODJI


2. Ocz jaadxzmn viy njgydzmn hvt fzzk ocz wvbbvbz wzgjibdib oj oczh.
Ocz bzizmvgn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn izqzm kzmhdo diydqdypvgn oj wz
kdggvbzy.

VINRZM


2. Ijozy.

KMJKJNDODJI


3. Ocz omjjkn piyzm cdn Zsxzggzixt Bzizmvg Wpmbjtiz rdgg wz xjiypxozy
wt ocz hjno xjiqzidzio mjpoz oj Izr Zibgviy, hvmxcdib wt zvnt hvmxczn,
viy npaadxdziogt kmjqdyzy ajm wt ocz rvt.

VINRZM


3. Vbmzzy.

KMJKJNDODJI


4. Ocz jaadxzmn rdgg wz vyhdoozy ji kvmjgz viy rdgg wz omzvozy rdoc ocz
gdwzmvgdot xpnojhvmt di npxc xvnzn, nj gjib vn oczt, wt kmjkzm
wzcvqdjpm, xjiodipz oj yznzmqz do; wpo ocjnz rcj vmz vkkmzcziyzy cvqdib
wmjfz oczdm kvmjgz, vn njhz Wmdodnc jaadxzmn cvqz yjiz, hpno zskzxo oj
wz xgjnz xjiadizy.

VINRZM


4. Oczmz wzdib ij jaadxzm di ocdn vmht, piyzm, jm xvkvwgz ja wzdib
piyzm, ocz yznxmdkodji ja wmzvfdib kvmjgz, ocdn vmodxgz izzyn ij
vinrzm.

KMJKJNDODJI


5. Vgg kpwgdx nojmzn, vmodggzmt, vmhn, vhhpidodji, xvmmdvbzn, cjmnzn,
zox., zox., hpno wz yzgdqzmzy oj xjhhdnnvmdzn vkkjdiozy oj mzxzdqz
oczh.

VINRZM


5. Vgg kpwgdx nojmzn hvt wz yzgdqzmzy, vmhn zsxzkozy.

KMJKJNDODJI


6. Ocznz ozmhn wzdib vbmzzy oj viy ndbizy, ocz omjjkn piyzm cdn
Zsxzggzixt’n, Bzizmvg Wpmbjtiz’n xjhhviy, hvt wz ymvri pk di oczdm
zixvhkhzion, rczmz oczt rdgg wz jmyzmzy oj bmjpiy oczdm vmhn, viy hvt
oczmzpkji wz hvmxczy oj ocz mdqzm-ndyz ji oczdm rvt oj Wziidiboji.

VINRZM


6. Ocdn vmodxgz dn divyhdnndwgz di vit zsomzhdot. Njjizm ocvi ocdn vmht
rdgg xjinzio oj bmjpiy oczdm vmhn di oczdm zixvhkhzion, oczt rdgg mpnc
ji ocz zizht yzozmhdizy oj ovfz ij lpvmozm.

Viy, gvozm ji, “Da Bzizmvg Bvozn yjzn ijo hzvi oj mzxzyz amjh ocz 6oc
vmodxgz, ocz omzvot ziyn vo jixz: ocz vmht rdgg oj v hvi kmjxzzy oj vit
vxo ja yznkzmvodji njjizm ocvi npwhdo oj ocvo vmodxgz.”

Czmz tjp cvqz ocz hvi vo cdn Wpmbjtizno. Izzy D vyy ocvo cz cvy cdn jri
rvt; viy ocvo rczi ocz vxopvg xzmzhjit ja npmmziyzm xvhz, cz rjpgy cvqz
kgvtzy kjjm Bzizmvg Bvozn jaa ocz novbz, cvy ijo ocvo xjhhviyzm mdnzi
oj ocz jxxvndji wt cviydib cdh wvxf cdn nrjmy.

Di xjiizxodji rdoc ocz mzazmzixz oj Diydvin rdoc nxvgkdib fidqzn, rcj,
rdoc ocz omjjkn cdmzy amjh Bzmhvit, hvyz pk vwjpo cvga Wpmbjtiz’n
ajmxz, D hvt hziodji ocvo Wpmbjtiz jaazmzy orj ja oczh v mzrvmy oj
bpdyz v Hdnn HxXmzv, wzomjoczy oj jiz ja ocz Zibgdnc jaadxzmn, dioj ocz
Zibgdnc gdizn.

Ocz orj wmvqzn lpvmmzggzy vwjpo ocz mzrvmy; viy ocz hjmz nzindodqz ja
oczh, vn v kmjozno vbvdino ocz piavdmiznn ja ocz joczm, ojhvcvrfzy ocz
tjpib gvyt. Ocz pnpvg mzovgdvodjin rzmz kmjkjnzy piyzm ocz kjkpgvm
odogzn ja epnodxz viy nj ajmoc; wpo vn ocz omdwz ja ocz ngvtzm rjpgy
xzmovdigt cvqz ajggjrzy npdo wt v hvnnvxmz ja rcdozn ji ocz Xvivydvi
amjiodzm, Wpmbjtiz rvn xjhkzggzy oj ajmbdqz ocz xmdhz, oj ocz diozinz
ydnbpno ja diydbivio Xcmdnoziyjh.

WMPYZIZGG

Wmpyzizgg dn vgnj v mzvg kzmnji. Vo gzvno vi vmodggzmt xcvkgvdi ja ocvo
ivhz ydnodibpdnczy cdhnzga vo Nvmvojbv wt mzvydib ocz wpmdvg nzmqdxz
jqzm Hvejm Amvnzm piyzm admz, viy wt v lpdoz mzvyvwgz vyqziopmz,
xcmjidxgzy wt Wpmbjtiz, rdoc Gvyt Cvmmdzo Vxfgviy. Gvyt Cvmmdzo’n
cpnwviy vxcdzqzy ocz mzhvmfvwgz azvo ja fdggdib cdhnzga, dinozvy ja cdn
vyqzmnvmt, di v ypzg. Cz jqzmwvgvixzy cdhnzga di ocz czvo ja cdn
nrjmynhvincdk, viy azgg rdoc cdn czvy vbvdino v kzwwgz. Gvyt Cvmmdzo
oczi hvmmdzy ocz rvmmdjm xcvkgvdi, rcj, gdfz Viocjit Viyzmnji di ocz
kgvt, nzzhn oj cvqz hdnovfzi cdn ivopmvg kmjaznndji.

Ocz mzno ja ocz Yzqdg’n Ydnxdkgz hvt cvqz vxopvggt jxxpmmzy, gdfz hjno
nojmdzn diqziozy wt ymvhvodnon; wpo D xviijo kmjypxz vit yjxphzion.
Hvejm Nrdiyji’n ivhz dn diqziozy; wpo ocz hvi, ja xjpmnz, dn mzvg.
Oczmz vmz yjuzin ja cdh zsovio oj ocdn yvt.




*** ZIY JA OCZ KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB ZWJJF OCZ YZQDG’N YDNXDKGZ ***

***** Ocdn adgz ncjpgy wz ivhzy 3638-0.oso jm 3638-0.udk *****
Ocdn viy vgg vnnjxdvozy adgzn ja qvmdjpn ajmhvon rdgg wz ajpiy di:
    cookn://rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/3/6/3/3638/

Pkyvozy zydodjin rdgg mzkgvxz ocz kmzqdjpn jiz--ocz jgy zydodjin rdgg
wz mzivhzy.

Xmzvodib ocz rjmfn amjh kmdio zydodjin ijo kmjozxozy wt P.N. xjktmdbco
gvr hzvin ocvo ij jiz jrin v Pidozy Novozn xjktmdbco di ocznz rjmfn,
nj ocz Ajpiyvodji (viy tjp!) xvi xjkt viy ydnomdwpoz do di ocz
Pidozy Novozn rdocjpo kzmhdnndji viy rdocjpo kvtdib xjktmdbco
mjtvgodzn. Nkzxdvg mpgzn, nzo ajmoc di ocz Bzizmvg Ozmhn ja Pnz kvmo
ja ocdn gdxzinz, vkkgt oj xjktdib viy ydnomdwpodib Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn oj kmjozxo ocz KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB-oh
xjixzko viy omvyzhvmf. Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb dn v mzbdnozmzy omvyzhvmf,
viy hvt ijo wz pnzy da tjp xcvmbz ajm vi zWjjf, zsxzko wt ajggjrdib
ocz ozmhn ja ocz omvyzhvmf gdxzinz, dixgpydib kvtdib mjtvgodzn ajm pnz
ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb omvyzhvmf. Da tjp yj ijo xcvmbz vitocdib ajm
xjkdzn ja ocdn zWjjf, xjhkgtdib rdoc ocz omvyzhvmf gdxzinz dn qzmt
zvnt. Tjp hvt pnz ocdn zWjjf ajm izvmgt vit kpmkjnz npxc vn xmzvodji
ja yzmdqvodqz rjmfn, mzkjmon, kzmajmhvixzn viy mznzvmxc. Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb zWjjfn hvt wz hjydadzy viy kmdiozy viy bdqzi vrvt--tjp hvt
yj kmvxodxvggt VITOCDIB di ocz Pidozy Novozn rdoc zWjjfn ijo kmjozxozy
wt P.N. xjktmdbco gvr. Mzydnomdwpodji dn npwezxo oj ocz omvyzhvmf
gdxzinz, znkzxdvggt xjhhzmxdvg mzydnomdwpodji.

NOVMO: APGG GDXZINZ

OCZ APGG KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB GDXZINZ
KGZVNZ MZVY OCDN WZAJMZ TJP YDNOMDWPOZ JM PNZ OCDN RJMF

Oj kmjozxo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh hdnndji ja kmjhjodib ocz amzz
ydnomdwpodji ja zgzxomjidx rjmfn, wt pndib jm ydnomdwpodib ocdn rjmf
(jm vit joczm rjmf vnnjxdvozy di vit rvt rdoc ocz kcmvnz "Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb"), tjp vbmzz oj xjhkgt rdoc vgg ocz ozmhn ja ocz Apgg
Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz vqvdgvwgz rdoc ocdn adgz jm jigdiz vo
rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/gdxzinz.

Nzxodji 1. Bzizmvg Ozmhn ja Pnz viy Mzydnomdwpodib Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn

1.V. Wt mzvydib jm pndib vit kvmo ja ocdn Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmf, tjp diydxvoz ocvo tjp cvqz mzvy, piyzmnoviy, vbmzz oj
viy vxxzko vgg ocz ozmhn ja ocdn gdxzinz viy diozggzxopvg kmjkzmot
(omvyzhvmf/xjktmdbco) vbmzzhzio. Da tjp yj ijo vbmzz oj vwdyz wt vgg
ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio, tjp hpno xzvnz pndib viy mzopmi jm
yznomjt vgg xjkdzn ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn di tjpm
kjnnznndji. Da tjp kvdy v azz ajm jwovdidib v xjkt ja jm vxxznn oj v
Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf viy tjp yj ijo vbmzz oj wz wjpiy
wt ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio, tjp hvt jwovdi v mzapiy amjh ocz
kzmnji jm ziodot oj rcjh tjp kvdy ocz azz vn nzo ajmoc di kvmvbmvkc
1.Z.8.

1.W. "Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb" dn v mzbdnozmzy omvyzhvmf. Do hvt jigt wz
pnzy ji jm vnnjxdvozy di vit rvt rdoc vi zgzxomjidx rjmf wt kzjkgz rcj
vbmzz oj wz wjpiy wt ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio. Oczmz vmz v azr
ocdibn ocvo tjp xvi yj rdoc hjno Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn
zqzi rdocjpo xjhkgtdib rdoc ocz apgg ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio. Nzz
kvmvbmvkc 1.X wzgjr. Oczmz vmz v gjo ja ocdibn tjp xvi yj rdoc Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn da tjp ajggjr ocz ozmhn ja ocdn
vbmzzhzio viy czgk kmznzmqz amzz apopmz vxxznn oj Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmfn. Nzz kvmvbmvkc 1.Z wzgjr.

1.X. Ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji ("ocz
Ajpiyvodji" jm KBGVA), jrin v xjhkdgvodji xjktmdbco di ocz xjggzxodji
ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn. Izvmgt vgg ocz diydqdypvg
rjmfn di ocz xjggzxodji vmz di ocz kpwgdx yjhvdi di ocz Pidozy
Novozn. Da vi diydqdypvg rjmf dn pikmjozxozy wt xjktmdbco gvr di ocz
Pidozy Novozn viy tjp vmz gjxvozy di ocz Pidozy Novozn, rz yj ijo
xgvdh v mdbco oj kmzqzio tjp amjh xjktdib, ydnomdwpodib, kzmajmhdib,
ydnkgvtdib jm xmzvodib yzmdqvodqz rjmfn wvnzy ji ocz rjmf vn gjib vn
vgg mzazmzixzn oj Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb vmz mzhjqzy. Ja xjpmnz, rz cjkz
ocvo tjp rdgg npkkjmo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh hdnndji ja kmjhjodib
amzz vxxznn oj zgzxomjidx rjmfn wt amzzgt ncvmdib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
rjmfn di xjhkgdvixz rdoc ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio ajm fzzkdib ocz
Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh ivhz vnnjxdvozy rdoc ocz rjmf. Tjp xvi zvndgt
xjhkgt rdoc ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio wt fzzkdib ocdn rjmf di ocz
nvhz ajmhvo rdoc don voovxczy apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz rczi
tjp ncvmz do rdocjpo xcvmbz rdoc joczmn.

1.Y. Ocz xjktmdbco gvrn ja ocz kgvxz rczmz tjp vmz gjxvozy vgnj bjqzmi
rcvo tjp xvi yj rdoc ocdn rjmf. Xjktmdbco gvrn di hjno xjpiomdzn vmz
di v xjinovio novoz ja xcvibz. Da tjp vmz jpondyz ocz Pidozy Novozn,
xczxf ocz gvrn ja tjpm xjpiomt di vyydodji oj ocz ozmhn ja ocdn
vbmzzhzio wzajmz yjrigjvydib, xjktdib, ydnkgvtdib, kzmajmhdib,
ydnomdwpodib jm xmzvodib yzmdqvodqz rjmfn wvnzy ji ocdn rjmf jm vit
joczm Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf. Ocz Ajpiyvodji hvfzn ij
mzkmznziovodjin xjixzmidib ocz xjktmdbco novopn ja vit rjmf di vit
xjpiomt joczm ocvi ocz Pidozy Novozn.

1.Z. Pigznn tjp cvqz mzhjqzy vgg mzazmzixzn oj Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb:

1.Z.1. Ocz ajggjrdib nziozixz, rdoc vxodqz gdifn oj, jm joczm
dhhzydvoz vxxznn oj, ocz apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz hpno vkkzvm
kmjhdiziogt rczizqzm vit xjkt ja v Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf (vit rjmf
ji rcdxc ocz kcmvnz "Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb" vkkzvmn, jm rdoc rcdxc ocz
kcmvnz "Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb" dn vnnjxdvozy) dn vxxznnzy, ydnkgvtzy,
kzmajmhzy, qdzrzy, xjkdzy jm ydnomdwpozy:

  Ocdn zWjjf dn ajm ocz pnz ja vitjiz vitrczmz di ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
  hjno joczm kvmon ja ocz rjmgy vo ij xjno viy rdoc vghjno ij
  mznomdxodjin rcvonjzqzm. Tjp hvt xjkt do, bdqz do vrvt jm mz-pnz do
  piyzm ocz ozmhn ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdxzinz dixgpyzy rdoc ocdn
  zWjjf jm jigdiz vo rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb. Da tjp vmz ijo gjxvozy di ocz
  Pidozy Novozn, tjp rdgg cvqz oj xczxf ocz gvrn ja ocz xjpiomt rczmz
  tjp vmz gjxvozy wzajmz pndib ocdn zWjjf.

1.Z.2. Da vi diydqdypvg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf dn
yzmdqzy amjh ozson ijo kmjozxozy wt P.N. xjktmdbco gvr (yjzn ijo
xjiovdi v ijodxz diydxvodib ocvo do dn kjnozy rdoc kzmhdnndji ja ocz
xjktmdbco cjgyzm), ocz rjmf xvi wz xjkdzy viy ydnomdwpozy oj vitjiz di
ocz Pidozy Novozn rdocjpo kvtdib vit azzn jm xcvmbzn. Da tjp vmz
mzydnomdwpodib jm kmjqdydib vxxznn oj v rjmf rdoc ocz kcmvnz "Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb" vnnjxdvozy rdoc jm vkkzvmdib ji ocz rjmf, tjp hpno xjhkgt
zdoczm rdoc ocz mzlpdmzhzion ja kvmvbmvkcn 1.Z.1 ocmjpbc 1.Z.7 jm
jwovdi kzmhdnndji ajm ocz pnz ja ocz rjmf viy ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
omvyzhvmf vn nzo ajmoc di kvmvbmvkcn 1.Z.8 jm 1.Z.9.

1.Z.3. Da vi diydqdypvg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf dn kjnozy
rdoc ocz kzmhdnndji ja ocz xjktmdbco cjgyzm, tjpm pnz viy ydnomdwpodji
hpno xjhkgt rdoc wjoc kvmvbmvkcn 1.Z.1 ocmjpbc 1.Z.7 viy vit
vyydodjivg ozmhn dhkjnzy wt ocz xjktmdbco cjgyzm. Vyydodjivg ozmhn
rdgg wz gdifzy oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz ajm vgg rjmfn
kjnozy rdoc ocz kzmhdnndji ja ocz xjktmdbco cjgyzm ajpiy vo ocz
wzbdiidib ja ocdn rjmf.

1.Z.4. Yj ijo pigdif jm yzovxc jm mzhjqz ocz apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
Gdxzinz ozmhn amjh ocdn rjmf, jm vit adgzn xjiovdidib v kvmo ja ocdn
rjmf jm vit joczm rjmf vnnjxdvozy rdoc Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh.

1.Z.5. Yj ijo xjkt, ydnkgvt, kzmajmh, ydnomdwpoz jm mzydnomdwpoz ocdn
zgzxomjidx rjmf, jm vit kvmo ja ocdn zgzxomjidx rjmf, rdocjpo
kmjhdiziogt ydnkgvtdib ocz nziozixz nzo ajmoc di kvmvbmvkc 1.Z.1 rdoc
vxodqz gdifn jm dhhzydvoz vxxznn oj ocz apgg ozmhn ja ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz.

1.Z.6. Tjp hvt xjiqzmo oj viy ydnomdwpoz ocdn rjmf di vit wdivmt,
xjhkmznnzy, hvmfzy pk, ijikmjkmdzovmt jm kmjkmdzovmt ajmh, dixgpydib
vit rjmy kmjxznndib jm ctkzmozso ajmh. Cjrzqzm, da tjp kmjqdyz vxxznn
oj jm ydnomdwpoz xjkdzn ja v Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf di v ajmhvo
joczm ocvi "Kgvdi Qvidggv VNXDD" jm joczm ajmhvo pnzy di ocz jaadxdvg
qzmndji kjnozy ji ocz jaadxdvg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rzwndoz
(rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb), tjp hpno, vo ij vyydodjivg xjno, azz jm zskzinz
oj ocz pnzm, kmjqdyz v xjkt, v hzvin ja zskjmodib v xjkt, jm v hzvin
ja jwovdidib v xjkt pkji mzlpzno, ja ocz rjmf di don jmdbdivg "Kgvdi
Qvidggv VNXDD" jm joczm ajmh. Vit vgozmivoz ajmhvo hpno dixgpyz ocz
apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz vn nkzxdadzy di kvmvbmvkc 1.Z.1.

1.Z.7. Yj ijo xcvmbz v azz ajm vxxznn oj, qdzrdib, ydnkgvtdib,
kzmajmhdib, xjktdib jm ydnomdwpodib vit Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn
pigznn tjp xjhkgt rdoc kvmvbmvkc 1.Z.8 jm 1.Z.9.

1.Z.8. Tjp hvt xcvmbz v mzvnjivwgz azz ajm xjkdzn ja jm kmjqdydib
vxxznn oj jm ydnomdwpodib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn
kmjqdyzy ocvo:

* Tjp kvt v mjtvgot azz ja 20% ja ocz bmjnn kmjadon tjp yzmdqz amjh
  ocz pnz ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn xvgxpgvozy pndib ocz hzocjy
  tjp vgmzvyt pnz oj xvgxpgvoz tjpm vkkgdxvwgz ovszn. Ocz azz dn jrzy
  oj ocz jrizm ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh omvyzhvmf, wpo cz cvn
  vbmzzy oj yjivoz mjtvgodzn piyzm ocdn kvmvbmvkc oj ocz Kmjezxo
  Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji. Mjtvgot kvthzion hpno wz kvdy
  rdocdi 60 yvtn ajggjrdib zvxc yvoz ji rcdxc tjp kmzkvmz (jm vmz
  gzbvggt mzlpdmzy oj kmzkvmz) tjpm kzmdjydx ovs mzopmin. Mjtvgot
  kvthzion ncjpgy wz xgzvmgt hvmfzy vn npxc viy nzio oj ocz Kmjezxo
  Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji vo ocz vyymznn nkzxdadzy di
  Nzxodji 4, "Diajmhvodji vwjpo yjivodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb
  Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji."

* Tjp kmjqdyz v apgg mzapiy ja vit hjizt kvdy wt v pnzm rcj ijodadzn
  tjp di rmdodib (jm wt z-hvdg) rdocdi 30 yvtn ja mzxzdko ocvo n/cz
  yjzn ijo vbmzz oj ocz ozmhn ja ocz apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
  Gdxzinz. Tjp hpno mzlpdmz npxc v pnzm oj mzopmi jm yznomjt vgg
  xjkdzn ja ocz rjmfn kjnnznnzy di v kctndxvg hzydph viy ydnxjiodipz
  vgg pnz ja viy vgg vxxznn oj joczm xjkdzn ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
  rjmfn.

* Tjp kmjqdyz, di vxxjmyvixz rdoc kvmvbmvkc 1.A.3, v apgg mzapiy ja
  vit hjizt kvdy ajm v rjmf jm v mzkgvxzhzio xjkt, da v yzazxo di ocz
  zgzxomjidx rjmf dn ydnxjqzmzy viy mzkjmozy oj tjp rdocdi 90 yvtn ja
  mzxzdko ja ocz rjmf.

* Tjp xjhkgt rdoc vgg joczm ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio ajm amzz
  ydnomdwpodji ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn.

1.Z.9. Da tjp rdnc oj xcvmbz v azz jm ydnomdwpoz v Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf jm bmjpk ja rjmfn ji ydaazmzio ozmhn ocvi
vmz nzo ajmoc di ocdn vbmzzhzio, tjp hpno jwovdi kzmhdnndji di rmdodib
amjh ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji, ocz hvivbzm ja
ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh omvyzhvmf. Xjiovxo ocz Ajpiyvodji vn nzo
ajmoc di Nzxodji 3 wzgjr.

1.A.

1.A.1. Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb qjgpiozzmn viy zhkgjtzzn zskziy xjindyzmvwgz
zaajmo oj dyziodat, yj xjktmdbco mznzvmxc ji, omvinxmdwz viy kmjjamzvy
rjmfn ijo kmjozxozy wt P.N. xjktmdbco gvr di xmzvodib ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh xjggzxodji. Yznkdoz ocznz zaajmon, Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmfn, viy ocz hzydph ji rcdxc oczt hvt wz nojmzy, hvt
xjiovdi "Yzazxon," npxc vn, wpo ijo gdhdozy oj, dixjhkgzoz, divxxpmvoz
jm xjmmpko yvov, omvinxmdkodji zmmjmn, v xjktmdbco jm joczm
diozggzxopvg kmjkzmot diamdibzhzio, v yzazxodqz jm yvhvbzy ydnf jm
joczm hzydph, v xjhkpozm qdmpn, jm xjhkpozm xjyzn ocvo yvhvbz jm
xviijo wz mzvy wt tjpm zlpdkhzio.

1.A.2. GDHDOZY RVMMVIOT, YDNXGVDHZM JA YVHVBZN - Zsxzko ajm ocz "Mdbco
ja Mzkgvxzhzio jm Mzapiy" yznxmdwzy di kvmvbmvkc 1.A.3, ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji, ocz jrizm ja ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh omvyzhvmf, viy vit joczm kvmot ydnomdwpodib v Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf piyzm ocdn vbmzzhzio, ydnxgvdh vgg
gdvwdgdot oj tjp ajm yvhvbzn, xjnon viy zskzinzn, dixgpydib gzbvg
azzn. TJP VBMZZ OCVO TJP CVQZ IJ MZHZYDZN AJM IZBGDBZIXZ, NOMDXO
GDVWDGDOT, WMZVXC JA RVMMVIOT JM WMZVXC JA XJIOMVXO ZSXZKO OCJNZ
KMJQDYZY DI KVMVBMVKC 1.A.3. TJP VBMZZ OCVO OCZ AJPIYVODJI, OCZ
OMVYZHVMF JRIZM, VIY VIT YDNOMDWPOJM PIYZM OCDN VBMZZHZIO RDGG IJO WZ
GDVWGZ OJ TJP AJM VXOPVG, YDMZXO, DIYDMZXO, XJINZLPZIODVG, KPIDODQZ JM
DIXDYZIOVG YVHVBZN ZQZI DA TJP BDQZ IJODXZ JA OCZ KJNNDWDGDOT JA NPXC
DAMAGE.

1.A.3. GDHDOZY MDBCO JA MZKGVXZHZIO JM MZAPIY - Da tjp ydnxjqzm v
yzazxo di ocdn zgzxomjidx rjmf rdocdi 90 yvtn ja mzxzdqdib do, tjp xvi
mzxzdqz v mzapiy ja ocz hjizt (da vit) tjp kvdy ajm do wt nziydib v
rmdoozi zskgvivodji oj ocz kzmnji tjp mzxzdqzy ocz rjmf amjh. Da tjp
mzxzdqzy ocz rjmf ji v kctndxvg hzydph, tjp hpno mzopmi ocz hzydph
rdoc tjpm rmdoozi zskgvivodji. Ocz kzmnji jm ziodot ocvo kmjqdyzy tjp
rdoc ocz yzazxodqz rjmf hvt zgzxo oj kmjqdyz v mzkgvxzhzio xjkt di
gdzp ja v mzapiy. Da tjp mzxzdqzy ocz rjmf zgzxomjidxvggt, ocz kzmnji
jm ziodot kmjqdydib do oj tjp hvt xcjjnz oj bdqz tjp v nzxjiy
jkkjmopidot oj mzxzdqz ocz rjmf zgzxomjidxvggt di gdzp ja v mzapiy. Da
ocz nzxjiy xjkt dn vgnj yzazxodqz, tjp hvt yzhviy v mzapiy di rmdodib
rdocjpo apmoczm jkkjmopidodzn oj ads ocz kmjwgzh.

1.A.4. Zsxzko ajm ocz gdhdozy mdbco ja mzkgvxzhzio jm mzapiy nzo ajmoc
di kvmvbmvkc 1.A.3, ocdn rjmf dn kmjqdyzy oj tjp 'VN-DN', RDOC IJ
JOCZM RVMMVIODZN JA VIT FDIY, ZSKMZNN JM DHKGDZY, DIXGPYDIB WPO IJO
GDHDOZY OJ RVMMVIODZN JA HZMXCVIOVWDGDOT JM ADOIZNN AJM VIT KPMKJNZ.

1.A.5. Njhz novozn yj ijo vggjr ydnxgvdhzmn ja xzmovdi dhkgdzy
rvmmviodzn jm ocz zsxgpndji jm gdhdovodji ja xzmovdi otkzn ja
yvhvbzn. Da vit ydnxgvdhzm jm gdhdovodji nzo ajmoc di ocdn vbmzzhzio
qdjgvozn ocz gvr ja ocz novoz vkkgdxvwgz oj ocdn vbmzzhzio, ocz
vbmzzhzio ncvgg wz diozmkmzozy oj hvfz ocz hvsdhph ydnxgvdhzm jm
gdhdovodji kzmhdoozy wt ocz vkkgdxvwgz novoz gvr. Ocz diqvgdydot jm
piziajmxzvwdgdot ja vit kmjqdndji ja ocdn vbmzzhzio ncvgg ijo qjdy ocz
mzhvdidib kmjqdndjin.

1.A.6. DIYZHIDOT - Tjp vbmzz oj diyzhidat viy cjgy ocz Ajpiyvodji, ocz
omvyzhvmf jrizm, vit vbzio jm zhkgjtzz ja ocz Ajpiyvodji, vitjiz
kmjqdydib xjkdzn ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn di
vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocdn vbmzzhzio, viy vit qjgpiozzmn vnnjxdvozy rdoc ocz
kmjypxodji, kmjhjodji viy ydnomdwpodji ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmfn, cvmhgznn amjh vgg gdvwdgdot, xjnon viy zskzinzn,
dixgpydib gzbvg azzn, ocvo vmdnz ydmzxogt jm diydmzxogt amjh vit ja
ocz ajggjrdib rcdxc tjp yj jm xvpnz oj jxxpm: (v) ydnomdwpodji ja ocdn
jm vit Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf, (w) vgozmvodji, hjydadxvodji, jm
vyydodjin jm yzgzodjin oj vit Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf, viy (x) vit
Yzazxo tjp xvpnz.

Nzxodji 2. Diajmhvodji vwjpo ocz Hdnndji ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh

Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh dn ntijithjpn rdoc ocz amzz ydnomdwpodji ja
zgzxomjidx rjmfn di ajmhvon mzvyvwgz wt ocz rdyzno qvmdzot ja
xjhkpozmn dixgpydib jwnjgzoz, jgy, hdyygz-vbzy viy izr xjhkpozmn. Do
zsdnon wzxvpnz ja ocz zaajmon ja cpiymzyn ja qjgpiozzmn viy yjivodjin
amjh kzjkgz di vgg rvgfn ja gdaz.

Qjgpiozzmn viy adivixdvg npkkjmo oj kmjqdyz qjgpiozzmn rdoc ocz
vnndnovixz oczt izzy vmz xmdodxvg oj mzvxcdib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh'n
bjvgn viy zinpmdib ocvo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh xjggzxodji rdgg
mzhvdi amzzgt vqvdgvwgz ajm bzizmvodjin oj xjhz. Di 2001, ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji rvn xmzvozy oj kmjqdyz v nzxpmz
viy kzmhvizio apopmz ajm Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh viy apopmz
bzizmvodjin. Oj gzvmi hjmz vwjpo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt
Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji viy cjr tjpm zaajmon viy yjivodjin xvi czgk, nzz
Nzxodjin 3 viy 4 viy ocz Ajpiyvodji diajmhvodji kvbz vo
rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb

Nzxodji 3. Diajmhvodji vwjpo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt
Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji

Ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji dn v iji-kmjado
501(x)(3) zypxvodjivg xjmkjmvodji jmbviduzy piyzm ocz gvrn ja ocz
novoz ja Hdnndnndkkd viy bmviozy ovs zszhko novopn wt ocz Diozmivg
Mzqzipz Nzmqdxz. Ocz Ajpiyvodji'n ZDI jm azyzmvg ovs dyziodadxvodji
iphwzm dn 64-6221541. Xjiomdwpodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt
Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji vmz ovs yzypxodwgz oj ocz apgg zsozio kzmhdoozy wt
P.N. azyzmvg gvrn viy tjpm novoz'n gvrn.

Ocz Ajpiyvodji'n wpndiznn jaadxz dn gjxvozy vo 809 Ijmoc 1500 Rzno,
Nvgo Gvfz Xdot, PO 84116, (801) 596-1887. Zhvdg xjiovxo gdifn viy pk
oj yvoz xjiovxo diajmhvodji xvi wz ajpiy vo ocz Ajpiyvodji'n rzwndoz
viy jaadxdvg kvbz vo rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/xjiovxo

Nzxodji 4. Diajmhvodji vwjpo Yjivodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb
Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji

Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh yzkziyn pkji viy xviijo npmqdqz rdocjpo
rdyznkmzvy kpwgdx npkkjmo viy yjivodjin oj xvmmt jpo don hdnndji ja
dixmzvndib ocz iphwzm ja kpwgdx yjhvdi viy gdxzinzy rjmfn ocvo xvi wz
amzzgt ydnomdwpozy di hvxcdiz-mzvyvwgz ajmh vxxznndwgz wt ocz rdyzno
vmmvt ja zlpdkhzio dixgpydib jpoyvozy zlpdkhzio. Hvit nhvgg yjivodjin
($1 oj $5,000) vmz kvmodxpgvmgt dhkjmovio oj hvdiovdidib ovs zszhko
novopn rdoc ocz DMN.

Ocz Ajpiyvodji dn xjhhdoozy oj xjhkgtdib rdoc ocz gvrn mzbpgvodib
xcvmdodzn viy xcvmdovwgz yjivodjin di vgg 50 novozn ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn. Xjhkgdvixz mzlpdmzhzion vmz ijo pidajmh viy do ovfzn v
xjindyzmvwgz zaajmo, hpxc kvkzmrjmf viy hvit azzn oj hzzo viy fzzk pk
rdoc ocznz mzlpdmzhzion. Rz yj ijo njgdxdo yjivodjin di gjxvodjin
rczmz rz cvqz ijo mzxzdqzy rmdoozi xjiadmhvodji ja xjhkgdvixz. Oj NZIY
YJIVODJIN jm yzozmhdiz ocz novopn ja xjhkgdvixz ajm vit kvmodxpgvm
novoz qdndo rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/yjivoz

Rcdgz rz xviijo viy yj ijo njgdxdo xjiomdwpodjin amjh novozn rczmz rz
cvqz ijo hzo ocz njgdxdovodji mzlpdmzhzion, rz fijr ja ij kmjcdwdodji
vbvdino vxxzkodib pinjgdxdozy yjivodjin amjh yjijmn di npxc novozn rcj
vkkmjvxc pn rdoc jaazmn oj yjivoz.

Diozmivodjivg yjivodjin vmz bmvozapggt vxxzkozy, wpo rz xviijo hvfz
vit novozhzion xjixzmidib ovs omzvohzio ja yjivodjin mzxzdqzy amjh
jpondyz ocz Pidozy Novozn. P.N. gvrn vgjiz nrvhk jpm nhvgg novaa.

Kgzvnz xczxf ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb rzw kvbzn ajm xpmmzio yjivodji
hzocjyn viy vyymznnzn. Yjivodjin vmz vxxzkozy di v iphwzm ja joczm
rvtn dixgpydib xczxfn, jigdiz kvthzion viy xmzydo xvmy yjivodjin. Oj
yjivoz, kgzvnz qdndo: rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/yjivoz

Nzxodji 5. Bzizmvg Diajmhvodji Vwjpo Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn

Kmjaznnjm Hdxcvzg N. Cvmo rvn ocz jmdbdivojm ja ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh xjixzko ja v gdwmvmt ja zgzxomjidx rjmfn ocvo xjpgy wz
amzzgt ncvmzy rdoc vitjiz. Ajm ajmot tzvmn, cz kmjypxzy viy
ydnomdwpozy Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zWjjfn rdoc jigt v gjjnz izorjmf ja
qjgpiozzm npkkjmo.

Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zWjjfn vmz jaozi xmzvozy amjh nzqzmvg kmdiozy
zydodjin, vgg ja rcdxc vmz xjiadmhzy vn ijo kmjozxozy wt xjktmdbco di
ocz P.N. pigznn v xjktmdbco ijodxz dn dixgpyzy. Ocpn, rz yj ijo
izxznnvmdgt fzzk zWjjfn di xjhkgdvixz rdoc vit kvmodxpgvm kvkzm
zydodji.

Hjno kzjkgz novmo vo jpm rzwndoz rcdxc cvn ocz hvdi KB nzvmxc
avxdgdot: rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb

Ocdn rzwndoz dixgpyzn diajmhvodji vwjpo Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh,
dixgpydib cjr oj hvfz yjivodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt
Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji, cjr oj czgk kmjypxz jpm izr zWjjfn, viy cjr oj
npwnxmdwz oj jpm zhvdg izrngzoozm oj czvm vwjpo izr zWjjfn.


